In this paper, the global asymptotic stability of memristive bidirectional associative memory neural networks with leakage delay and two additive time-varying delays is firstly studied. Then, we propose a novel sampled-data feedback controller to guarantee the synchronization of system based on drive/response concept. In particular, taking full advantage of the input delay approach, the Lyapunov function method and the Jensens inequality theory, several sufficient conditions are obtained. Finally, two numerical simulation examples show the effectiveness of the designed sampled-data control strategy. Furthermore, our results can be applied to simulate the associative memory function of brain-like robots, large-scale information storage, etc. (C) 2017 Published by Elsevier Ltd."
this paper,the global asymptotic stability,memristive bidirectional associative memory neural networks,leakage delay,two additive time-varying delays,we,a novel sampled-data feedback controller,the synchronization,system,drive/response concept,full advantage,the input delay approach,, the Lyapunov function method,the Jensens inequality theory,several sufficient conditions,two numerical simulation examples,the effectiveness,the designed sampled-data control strategy,our results,the associative memory function,brain-like robots,large-scale information storage,Elsevier Ltd.,
In this work, we reported a chemically modified technique via screen printing method to fabricate carbon nanotubes (CNTs)/Polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) nanocomposite to monitor the piezoresistive behavior of nanocomposite while applying pressure. Raman, UV/vis and HRTEM results were utilized to verify the quality of CNTs, purified through chemical and physical treatments; carboxylic and hydroxylic functional groups were determined via FTIR. The optimum dispersion ratio of the nanocomposite was observed by FESEM images which clearly show the consistent dispersion of CNTs coated by PDMS. Furthermore, I-V characterization of the developed nanocomposite indicates change in resistivity for a few orders of magnitude before and after treatment in addition to resistance variation as a result of different applied pressures. These results indicate the importance of CNTs treatment prior to nanocomposite fabrication in order to obtain lower percolation threshold. Obtained results are useful in development of haptic sensor, artificial finger, and brain like devices for robotics applications. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
this work,we,a chemically modified technique,screen printing method,carbon nanotubes,the piezoresistive behavior,nanocomposite,pressure,Raman, UV/vis and HRTEM results,the quality,CNTs,chemical and physical treatments,carboxylic and hydroxylic functional groups,FTIR.,The optimum dispersion ratio,the nanocomposite,FESEM images,the consistent dispersion,CNTs,PDMS.,I-V characterization,the developed nanocomposite,change,resistivity,a few orders,magnitude,treatment,addition,resistance variation,a result,different applied pressures,These results,the importance,CNTs treatment,nanocomposite fabrication,order,lower percolation threshold,Obtained results,development,haptic sensor,artificial finger,brain,devices,robotics applications,All rights,
Flow sensors inspired from lateral line neuromasts of cavefish have been widely investigated over decades to develop artificial sensors. The design and function of these natural sensors have been mimicked using microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) based sensors. However, there is more to the overall function and performance of these natural sensors. Mimicking the morphology and material properties of specialized structures like a cupula would significantly help to improve the existing designs. Toward this goal, the paper reports development of a canal neuromast inspired piezoelectric sensor and investigates the role of a biomimetic cupula in influencing the performance of the sensor. The sensor was developed using microfabrication technology and tested for the detection of the steady-state and oscillatory flows. An artificial cupula was synthesized using a soft hydrogel material and characterized for morphology and mechanical properties. Results show that the artificial cupula had a porous structure and high mechanical strength similar to the biological canal neuromast. Experimental results show the ability of these sensors to measure the steady-state flows accurately, and for oscillatory flows, an increase in the sensor output was detected in the presence of the cupula structure. This is the first time a MEMS based piezoelectric sensor is demonstrated to detect steady-state flows using the principle of vortex-induced vibrations. The bioinspired sensor developed in this work would be investigated further to understand the role of the cupula structure in biological flow sensing mechanisms, thus contributing toward the design of highly sensitive and efficient sensors for various applications such as underwater robotics, microfluidics, and biomedical devices. (C) 2017 Author(s).
Flow sensors,lateral line neuromasts,cavefish,decades,artificial sensors,The design,function,these natural sensors,microelectromechanical systems,based sensors,the overall function,performance,these natural sensors,the morphology,material properties,specialized structures,a cupula,the existing designs,this goal,the paper reports development,a canal neuromast,piezoelectric sensor,the role,a biomimetic cupula,the performance,the sensor,The sensor,microfabrication technology,the detection,An artificial cupula,a soft hydrogel material,morphology,properties,Results,the artificial cupula,a porous structure,high mechanical strength,the biological canal,Experimental results,the ability,these sensors,the steady-state flows,oscillatory flows,, an increase,the sensor output,the presence,the cupula structure,the first time,a MEMS based piezoelectric sensor,steady-state flows,the principle,vortex-induced vibrations,The bioinspired sensor,this work,the role,the cupula structure,biological flow,mechanisms,the design,highly sensitive and efficient sensors,various applications,underwater robotics,microfluidics,biomedical devices,
Objective. Many computer vision and robotic applications require the implementation of robust and efficient target-tracking algorithms on a moving platform. However, deployment of a real-time system is challenging, even with the computational power of modern hardware. Lightweight and low-powered flying insects, such as dragonflies, track prey or conspecifics within cluttered natural environments, illustrating an efficient biological solution to the target-tracking problem. Approach. We used our recent recordings from small target motion detector neurons in the dragonfly brain to inspire the development of a closed-loop target detection and tracking algorithm. This model exploits facilitation, a slow build-up of response to targets which move along long, continuous trajectories, as seen in our electrophysiological data. To test performance in real-world conditions, we implemented this model on a robotic platform that uses active pursuit strategies based on insect behaviour. Main results. Our robot performs robustly in closed-loop pursuit of targets, despite a range of challenging conditions used in our experiments; low contrast targets, heavily cluttered environments and the presence of distracters. We show that the facilitation stage boosts responses to targets moving along continuous trajectories, improving contrast sensitivity and detection of small moving targets against textured backgrounds. Moreover, the temporal properties of facilitation play a useful role in handling vibration of the robotic platform. We also show that the adoption of feedforward models which predict the sensory consequences of self-movement can significantly improve target detection during saccadic movements. Significance. Our results provide insight into the neuronal mechanisms that underlie biological target detection and selection (from a moving platform), as well as highlight the effectiveness of our bio-inspired algorithm in an artificial visual system."
Many computer vision,robotic applications,the implementation,robust and efficient target-tracking algorithms,a moving platform,deployment,a real-time system,the computational power,modern hardware,Lightweight and low-powered flying insects,dragonflies,prey,conspecifics,cluttered natural environments,an efficient biological solution,the target-tracking problem,We,our recent recordings,small target motion detector neurons,the dragonfly brain,the development,a closed-loop target detection,tracking algorithm,This model,facilitation,response,targets,long, continuous trajectories,our electrophysiological data,performance,real-world conditions,we,this model,a robotic platform,active pursuit strategies,insect behaviour,Our robot,closed-loop pursuit,targets,a range,challenging conditions,our experiments,distracters,We,the facilitation stage,responses,targets,continuous trajectories,contrast sensitivity,detection,small moving targets,textured backgrounds,the temporal properties,facilitation,a useful role,vibration,the robotic platform,We,the adoption,feedforward models,the sensory consequences,self-movement,target detection,saccadic movements,Our results,insight,the neuronal mechanisms,biological target detection,selection,a moving platform,highlight,the effectiveness,our bio-inspired algorithm,an artificial visual system,
Haptic sensors are essential devices that facilitate human-like sensing systems such as implantable medical devices and humanoid robots. The availability of conducting thin films with haptic properties could lead to the development of tactile sensing systems that stretch reversibly, sense pressure (not just touch), and integrate with collapsible. In this study, a nanocomposite based hemispherical artificial fingertip fabricated to enhance the tactile sensing systems of humanoid robots. To validate the hypothesis, proposed method was used in the robot-like finger system to classify the ripe and unripe tomato by recording the metabolic growth of the tomato as a function of resistivity change during a controlled indention force. Prior to fabrication, a finite element modeling (FEM) was investigated for tomato to obtain the stress distribution and failure point of tomato by applying different external loads. Then, the extracted computational analysis information was utilized to design and fabricate nano composite based artificial fingertip to examine the maturity analysis of tomato. The obtained results demonstrate that the fabricated conformable and scalable artificial fingertip shows different electrical property for ripe and unripe tomato. The artificial fingertip is compatible with the development of brain-like systems for artificial skin by obtaining periodic response during an applied load. (C) 2017 Published by Elsevier B.V.
Haptic sensors,essential devices,human-like sensing systems,implantable medical devices,humanoid robots,The availability,thin films,haptic properties,the development,tactile,systems,sense pressure,collapsible,this study,a nanocomposite based hemispherical artificial fingertip,the tactile,systems,humanoid robots,the hypothesis,, proposed method,the robot-like finger system,the ripe and unripe tomato,the metabolic growth,the tomato,a function,resistivity,change,a controlled indention force,fabrication,a finite element,tomato,the stress distribution,failure point,tomato,different external loads,the extracted computational analysis information,nano composite based artificial fingertip,the maturity analysis,tomato,The obtained results,the fabricated conformable,scalable artificial fingertip,different electrical property,ripe and unripe tomato,The artificial fingertip,the development,brain-like systems,artificial skin,periodic response,an applied load,Elsevier B.V.,
Neuromorphic hardware emulates dynamics of biological neural networks in electronic circuits offering an alternative to the von Neumann computing architecture that is low-power, inherently parallel, and event-driven. This hardware allows to implement neural-network based robotic controllers in an energy-efficient way with low latency, but requires solving the problem of device variability, characteristic for analog electronic circuits. In this work, we interfaced amixed-signal analog-digital neuromorphic processor ROLLS to a neuromorphic dynamic vision sensor (DVS) mounted on a robotic vehicle and developed an autonomous neuromorphic agent that is able to perform neurally inspired obstacle-avoidance and target acquisition. We developed a neural network architecture that can cope with device variability and verified its robustness in different environmental situations, e.g., moving obstacles, moving target, clutter, and poor light conditions. We demonstrate how this network, combined with the properties of the DVS, allows the robot to avoid obstacles using a simple biologically-inspired dynamics. We also show how a Dynamic Neural Field for target acquisition can be implemented in spiking neuromorphic hardware. This work demonstrates an implementation of working obstacle avoidance and target acquisition using mixed signal analog/digital neuromorphic hardware.
Neuromorphic hardware,dynamics,biological neural networks,electronic circuits,an alternative,von Neumann,the von Neumann computing architecture,This hardware,neural-network based robotic controllers,an energy-efficient way,low latency,the problem,device variability,analog electronic circuits,this work,we,amixed-signal analog-digital neuromorphic processor ROLLS,a neuromorphic dynamic vision sensor,a robotic vehicle,an autonomous neuromorphic agent,neurally inspired obstacle-avoidance,target acquisition,We,a neural network architecture,device variability,its robustness,different environmental situations,obstacles,We,this network,the properties,the DVS,the robot,obstacles,a simple biologically-inspired dynamics,We,a Dynamic Neural Field,target acquisition,neuromorphic hardware,This work,an implementation,obstacle avoidance,working obstacle avoidance and target acquisition,mixed signal,analog/digital neuromorphic hardware,
The current study proposes a novel cognitive architecture for a computational model of the limbic system, inspired by human brain activity, which improves interactions between a humanoid robot and preschool children using joint attention during turn-taking gameplay. Using human-robot interaction (HRI), this framework may be useful for ameliorating problems related to attracting and maintaining attention levels of children suffering from attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). In the proposed framework, computational models including the amygdala, hypothalamus, hippocampus, and basal ganglia are used to simulate a range of cognitive processes such as emotional responses, episodic memory formation, and selection of appropriate behavioral responses. In the currently proposed model limbic system, we applied reinforcement and unsupervised learning-based adaptation processes to a dynamic neural field model, resulting in a system that was capable of observing and controlling the physical and cognitive processes of a humanoid robot. Several interaction scenarios were tested to evaluate the performance of the model. Finally, we compared the results of our methodology with a neural mass model.
The current study,a novel cognitive architecture,a computational model,the limbic system,human brain activity,interactions,a humanoid robot,preschool children,joint attention,turn-taking gameplay,human-robot interaction,this framework,ameliorating problems,attention levels,children,attention deficit hyperactivity disorder,the proposed framework,computational models,the amygdala,hypothalamus,hippocampus,basal ganglia,a range,cognitive processes,emotional responses,episodic memory formation,selection,appropriate behavioral responses,the currently proposed model limbic system,we,reinforcement,unsupervised learning-based adaptation,a dynamic neural field model,a system,the physical and cognitive processes,a humanoid robot,Several interaction scenarios,the performance,the model,we,the results,our methodology,a neural mass model,
Much of recent researches in robotics have shifted the focus from traditionally-specific industrial tasks to investigations of new types of robots with alternative ways of controlling them. In this paper, we describe the development of a generic method based on factor graphs to model robot kinematics. We focused on the kinematics aspect of robot control because it provides a fast and systematic solution for the robot agent to move in a dynamic environment. We developed neurally-inspired factor graph models that can be applied on two different robotic systems: a mobile platform and a robotic arm. We also demonstrated that we can extend the static model of the robotic arm into a dynamic model useful for imitating natural movements of a human hand. We tested our methods in a simulation environment as well as in scenarios involving real robots. The experimental results proved the flexibility of our proposed methods in terms of remodeling and learning, which enabled the modeled robot to perform reliably during the execution of given tasks. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
recent researches,robotics,the focus,traditionally-specific industrial tasks,investigations,new types,robots,alternative ways,them,this paper,we,the development,a generic method,factor graphs,model robot kinematics,We,the kinematics aspect,robot control,it,a fast and systematic solution,the robot agent,a dynamic environment,We,neurally-inspired factor graph models,two different robotic systems,We,we,the static model,the robotic arm,a dynamic model,natural movements,a human hand,We,our methods,a simulation environment,scenarios,real robots,The experimental results,the flexibility,our proposed methods,terms,remodeling,learning,the modeled robot,the execution,given tasks,All rights,
Real-time detection of multiple stance events, more specifically initial contact (IC), foot flat (FF), heel off (HO), and toe off (TO), could greatly benefit neurorobotic (NR) and neuroprosthetic (NP) control. Three real-time threshold-based algorithms have been developed, detecting the aforementioned events based on kinematic data in combination with a biomechanical model. Data from seven subjects walking at three speeds on an instrumented treadmill were used to validate the presented algorithms, accumulating to a total of 558 steps. The reference for the gait events was obtained using marker and force plate data. All algorithms had excellent precision and no false positives were observed. Timing delays of the presented algorithms were similar to current state-of-the-art algorithms for the detection of IC and TO, whereas smaller delays were achieved for the detection of FF. Our results indicate that, based on their high precision and low delays, these algorithms can be used for the control of an NR/NP, with the exception of the HO event. Kinematic data is used in most NR/NP control schemes and is thus available at no additional cost, resulting in a minimal computational burden. The presented methods can also be applied for screening pathological gait or gait analysis in general in/outside of the laboratory.
Real-time detection,multiple stance events,more specifically initial contact,foot,heel,threshold-based algorithms,the aforementioned events,kinematic data,combination,a biomechanical model,Data,seven subjects,three speeds,an instrumented treadmill,the presented algorithms,a total,558 steps,The reference,the gait events,marker and force plate data,All algorithms,excellent precision,no false positives,delays,the presented algorithms,the-art,current state-of-the-art algorithms,the detection,IC,smaller delays,the detection,FF.,Our results,their high precision,low delays,these algorithms,the control,an NR/NP,the exception,the HO event,Kinematic data,most NR/NP control schemes,no additional cost,a minimal computational burden,The presented methods,pathological gait,gait analysis,general in/outside,the laboratory,
We implemented neuromorphic artificial touch and emulated the firing behavior of mechanoreceptors by injecting the raw outputs of a biomimetic tactile sensor into an Izhikevich neuronal model. Naturalistic textures were evaluated with a passive touch protocol. The resulting neuromorphic spike trains were able to classify ten naturalistic textures ranging from textiles to glass to BioSkin, with accuracy as high as 97%. Remarkably, rather than on firing rate features calculated over the stimulation window, the highest achieved decoding performance was based on the precise spike timing of the neuromorphic output as captured by Victor Purpura distance. We also systematically varied the sliding velocity and the contact force to investigate the role of sensing conditions in categorizing the stimuli via the artificial sensory system. We found that the decoding performance based on the timing of neuromorphic spike events was robust for a broad range of sensing conditions. Being able to categorize naturalistic textures in different sensing conditions, these neurorobotic results pave the way to the use of neuromorphic tactile sensors in future real-life neuroprosthetic applications.
We,neuromorphic artificial touch,the firing behavior,mechanoreceptors,the raw outputs,a biomimetic tactile sensor,an Izhikevich neuronal model,Naturalistic textures,a passive touch protocol,The resulting neuromorphic spike trains,ten naturalistic textures,textiles,glass,BioSkin,accuracy,97%,firing rate features,the stimulation window,the highest achieved decoding performance,the precise spike timing,the neuromorphic output,Victor Purpura distance,We,the sliding velocity,the contact force,the role,conditions,the stimuli,the artificial sensory system,We,the decoding performance,the timing,neuromorphic spike events,a broad range,conditions,naturalistic textures,different sensing conditions,these neurorobotic results,the way,the use,neuromorphic tactile sensors,future real-life neuroprosthetic applications,
Electrophysiological studies in animals may provide a great insight into developing brain-like models of spatial cognition for robots. These studies suggest that the spatial ability of animals requires proper functioning of the hippocampus and the entorhinal cortex (EC). The involvement of the hippocampus in spatial cognition has been extensively studied, both in animal as well as in theoretical studies, such as in the brain-based models by Edelman and colleagues. In this work, we extend these earlier models, with a particular focus on the spatial coding properties of the EC and how it functions as an interface between the hippocampus and the neocortex, as proposed by previous work. By realizing the cognitive memory and mapping functions of the hippocampus and the EC, respectively, we develop a neurobiologically-inspired system to enable a mobile robot to perform task-based navigation in a maze environment. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Electrophysiological studies,animals,a great insight,brain-like models,spatial cognition,robots,These studies,the spatial ability,animals,proper functioning,the hippocampus,the entorhinal cortex,The involvement,the hippocampus,spatial cognition,animal,theoretical studies,the brain-based models,Edelman,colleagues,this work,we,these earlier models,a particular focus,the spatial coding properties,the EC,it,an interface,the hippocampus,the neocortex,previous work,the cognitive memory,mapping functions,the hippocampus,we,a neurobiologically-inspired system,a mobile robot,task-based navigation,a maze environment,All rights,
Combined efforts in the fields of neuroscience, computer science, and biology allowed to design biologically realistic models of the brain based on spiking neural networks. For a proper validation of these models, an embodiment in a dynamic and rich sensory environment, where the model is exposed to a realistic sensory-motor task, is needed. Due to the complexity of these brain models that, at the current stage, cannot deal with real-time constraints, it is not possible to embed them into a real-world task. Rather, the embodiment has to be simulated as well. While adequate tools exist to simulate either complex neural networks or robots and their environments, there is so far no tool that allows to easily establish a communication between brain and body models. The Neurorobotics Platform is a new web-based environment that aims to fill this gap by offering scientists and technology developers a software infrastructure allowing them to connect brain models to detailed simulations of robot bodies and environments and to use the resulting neurorobotic systems for in silico experimentation. In order to simplify the workflow and reduce the level of the required programming skills, the platform provides editors for the specification of experimental sequences and conditions, environments, robots, and brain-body connectors. In addition to that, a variety of existing robots and environments are provided. This work presents the architecture of the first release of the Neurorobotics Platform developed in subproject 10 "Neurorobotics" of the Human Brain Project (HBP). 1 At the current state, the Neurorobotics Platform allows researchers to design and run basic experiments in neurorobotics using simulated robots and simulated environments linked to simplified versions of brain models. We illustrate the capabilities of the platform with three example experiments: a Braitenberg task implemented on a mobile robot, a sensory-motor learning task based on a robotic controller, and a visual tracking embedding a retina model on the iCub humanoid robot. These use-cases allow to assess the applicability of the Neurorobotics Platform for robotic tasks as well as in neuroscientific experiments.
the fields,neuroscience,computer science,biology,biologically realistic models,the brain,neural networks,a proper validation,these models,an embodiment,a dynamic and rich sensory environment,the model,a realistic sensory-motor task,the complexity,these brain models,the current stage,real-time constraints,it,them,a real-world task,the embodiment,adequate tools,either complex neural networks,robots,their environments,no tool,a communication,brain and body models,The Neurorobotics Platform,a new web-based environment,this gap,scientists,technology developers,a software infrastructure,them,brain models,detailed simulations,robot bodies,environments,the resulting neurorobotic systems,silico experimentation,order,the workflow,the level,the required programming skills,the platform,editors,the specification,experimental sequences,conditions,environments,robots,brain-body connectors,addition,a variety,existing robots,environments,This work,the architecture,the first release,the Neurorobotics Platform,subproject,the Human Brain Project,the current state,the Neurorobotics Platform,researchers,basic experiments,neurorobotics,simulated robots,simulated environments,simplified versions,brain models,We,the capabilities,the platform,three example experiments,a mobile robot,a sensory-motor learning task,a robotic controller,a retina model,the iCub humanoid robot,These use-cases,the applicability,the Neurorobotics Platform,robotic tasks,neuroscientific experiments,
In this paper, interaction between humans and robots and for rehabilitation applications in social areas is investigated. People suffering from some disorders require better nursing service for interacting socially. Additionally, utilizing human-robot interaction (HRI), this proposed architecture may be a suitable resolution for problems related to optimizing the focusing and sustaining attention states of children with Attention Deficit Hyperactive Disorder (ADHD) and Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). In the near future, it is expected that humanoid robots will have more interactive skills in social regions.
this paper,interaction,humans,robots,rehabilitation applications,social areas,People,some disorders,better nursing service,human-robot interaction,this proposed architecture,a suitable resolution,problems,attention states,children,Attention Deficit Hyperactive Disorder,the near future,it,humanoid robots,more interactive skills,social regions,
Advances in neural interfaces have demonstrated remarkable results in the direction of replacing and restoring lost sensorimotor function in human patients. Noninvasive brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) are popular due to considerable advantages including simplicity, safety, and low cost, while recent advances aim at improving past technological and neurophysiological limitations. Taking into account the neurophysiological alterations of disabled individuals, investigating brain connectivity features for implementation of BCI control holds special importance. Off-the-shelf BCI systems are based on fast, reproducible detection of mental activity and can be implemented in neurorobotic applications. Moreover, social Human-Robot Interaction (HRI) is increasingly important in rehabilitation robotics development. In this paper, we present our progress and goals towards developing off-the-shelf BCI-controlled anthropomorphic robotic arms for assistive technologies and rehabilitation applications. We account for robotics development, BCI implementation, and qualitative assessment of HRI characteristics of the system. Furthermore, we present two illustrative experimental applications of the BCI-controlled arms, a study of motor imagery modalities on healthy individuals BCI performance, and a pilot investigation on spinal cord injured patients BCI control and brain connectivity. We discuss strengths and limitations of our design and propose further steps on development and neurophysiological study, including implementation of connectivity features as BCI modality."
Advances,neural interfaces,remarkable results,the direction,lost sensorimotor function,human patients,Noninvasive brain-computer interfaces,considerable advantages,simplicity,safety,low cost,recent advances,technological and neurophysiological limitations,account,the neurophysiological alterations,disabled individuals,brain connectivity features,implementation,BCI control,special importance,the-shelf,BCI systems,fast, reproducible detection,mental activity,neurorobotic applications,social Human-Robot Interaction,rehabilitation robotics development,this paper,we,our progress,goals,the-shelf,BCI-controlled anthropomorphic robotic arms,assistive technologies,rehabilitation applications,We,robotics development,BCI implementation,HRI characteristics,the system,we,two illustrative experimental applications,the BCI-controlled arms,motor imagery modalities,healthy individuals,spinal cord,patients BCI control,brain connectivity,We,strengths,limitations,our design,further steps,development,neurophysiological study,implementation,connectivity features,BCI modality,
This study presents the assessment of ankle-foot gait abnormalities and estimation of neuromuscular control for maintaining gait dynamic stability and avoid falls. Control signals are modelled as the rate of change in the body COM acceleration as an input and the COP velocity as an output. Experiments show that the toe foot condition is least stable than inverted and normal walk at loading phase. However, the overdamped motor output response, equally stable for the three undamped input instabilities, shows the robustness of our proposed motor controller. Results show that our novel neuromotor inspired controller, based on behavioral I/O signals, is robust and suitable for the assessment of exoskeletal stability and control of wearable soft robotic applications.
This study,the assessment,ankle-foot gait abnormalities,estimation,neuromuscular control,gait dynamic stability,Control signals,the rate,change,the body COM acceleration,an input,the COP velocity,an output,Experiments,the toe foot condition,inverted and normal walk,loading phase,the overdamped motor output response,the three undamped input instabilities,the robustness,our proposed motor controller,Results,our novel,neuromotor,controller,behavioral I/O signals,the assessment,exoskeletal stability,control,wearable soft robotic applications,
Objective. In light of recent progress in mapping neural function to behavior, we briefly and selectively review past and present endeavors to reveal and reconstruct nervous system function in Caenorhabditis elegans through simulation. Approach. Rather than presenting an allencompassing review on the mathematical modeling of C. elegans, this contribution collects snapshots of pathfinding key works and emerging technologies that recent single- and multicenter simulation initiatives are building on. We thereby point out a few general limitations and problems that these undertakings are faced with and discuss how these may be addressed and overcome. Main results. Lessons learned from past and current computational approaches to deciphering and reconstructing information flow in the C. elegans nervous system corroborate the need of refining neural response models and linking them to intra-and extra-environmental interactions to better reflect and understand the actual biological, biochemical and biophysical events that lead to behavior. Together with single-center research efforts, the Si elegans and OpenWorm projects aim at providing the required, in some cases complementary tools for different hardware architectures to support advancement into this direction. Significance. Despite its seeming simplicity, the nervous system of the hermaphroditic nematode C. elegans with just 302 neurons gives rise to a rich behavioral repertoire. Besides controlling vital functions (feeding, defecation, reproduction), it encodes different stimuli-induced as well as autonomous locomotion modalities (crawling, swimming and jumping). For this dichotomy between system simplicity and behavioral complexity, C. elegans has challenged neurobiologists and computational scientists alike. Understanding the underlying mechanisms that lead to a context-modulated functionality of individual neurons would not only advance our knowledge on nervous system function and its failure in pathological states, but have directly exploitable benefits for robotics and the engineering of brain-mimetic computational architectures that are orthogonal to current von-Neumann-type machines.
light,recent progress,neural function,behavior,we,past,present endeavors,nervous system function,Caenorhabditis elegans,simulation,an allencompassing review,the mathematical modeling,C. elegans,this contribution,snapshots,key works,emerging technologies,recent single-,multicenter simulation initiatives,We,a few general limitations,problems,these undertakings,Lessons,current computational approaches,information flow,the C.,nervous system,the need,neural response models,them,extra-environmental interactions,the actual biological, biochemical and biophysical events,behavior,single-center research efforts,the Si elegans,some cases,complementary tools,different hardware architectures,advancement,this direction,its seeming simplicity,the nervous system,the hermaphroditic nematode C. elegans,just 302 neurons,a rich behavioral repertoire,vital functions,it,different stimuli,autonomous locomotion modalities,this dichotomy,system simplicity,behavioral complexity,C. elegans,neurobiologists,computational scientists,the underlying mechanisms,a context-modulated functionality,individual neurons,our knowledge,nervous system function,its failure,pathological states,directly exploitable benefits,robotics,the engineering,brain-mimetic computational architectures,current von-Neumann-type machines,
Embodied artificial cognitive systems, such as autonomous robots or intelligent observers, connect cognitive processes to sensory and effector systems in real time. Prime candidates for such embodied intelligence are neurally inspired architectures. While components such as forward neural networks are well established, designing pervasively autonomous neural architectures remains a challenge. This includes the problem of tuning the parameters of such architectures so that they deliver specified functionality under variable environmental conditions and retain these functions as the architectures are expanded. The scaling and autonomy problems are solved, in part, by dynamic field theory (DFT), a theoretical framework for the neural grounding of sensorimotor and cognitive processes. In this paper, we address how to efficiently build DFT architectures that control embodied agents and how to tune their parameters so that the desired cognitive functions emerge while such agents are situated in real environments. In DFT architectures, dynamic neural fields or nodes are assigned dynamic regimes, that is, attractor states and their instabilities, from which cognitive function emerges. Tuning thus amounts to determining values of the dynamic parameters for which the components of a DFT architecture are in the specified dynamic regime under the appropriate environmental conditions. The process of tuning is facilitated by the software framework cedar, which provides a graphical interface to build and execute DFT architectures. It enables to change dynamic parameters online and visualize the activation states of any component while the agent is receiving sensory inputs in real time. Using a simple example, we take the reader through the workflow of conceiving of DFT architectures, implementing them on embodied agents, tuning their parameters, and assessing performance while the system is coupled to real sensory inputs.
artificial cognitive systems,autonomous robots,intelligent observers,cognitive processes,sensory and effector systems,real time,Prime candidates,such embodied intelligence,neurally inspired architectures,components,forward neural networks,pervasively autonomous neural architectures,a challenge,the problem,the parameters,such architectures,they,specified functionality,variable environmental conditions,these functions,the architectures,The scaling and autonomy problems,part,dynamic field theory,the neural grounding,sensorimotor,cognitive processes,this paper,we,DFT architectures,embodied agents,their parameters,the desired cognitive functions,such agents,real environments,DFT architectures,dynamic neural fields,nodes,dynamic regimes,cognitive function,values,the dynamic parameters,the components,a DFT architecture,the specified dynamic regime,the appropriate environmental conditions,The process,tuning,the software framework cedar,a graphical interface,DFT architectures,It,dynamic parameters,the activation states,any component,the agent,sensory inputs,real time,a simple example,we,the reader,the workflow,conceiving,DFT architectures,them,embodied agents,their parameters,performance,the system,real sensory inputs,
The brain is naturally a parallel and distributed system. Reverse engineering a cognitive brain is considered to be a grand challenge. In this paper, we present the parallel brain simulator (PBS), a parallel and distributed platform for modeling the cognitive brain at multiple scales. Inspired by large-scale graph computation, PBS can be considered as a universal parallel execution engine, which is aimed at reducing the complexity of distributed programming and providing an easy to use programmable platform for computational neuroscientists and artificial intelligence researchers for modeling and simulation of large-scale neural networks. As illustrative examples and validations, three brain-inspired neural networks which are built on PBS are introduced, including the 1:1 human hippocampus network, the 1:1 mouse whole-brain network and the CASIA brain simulator built for cognitive robotics. We deploy PBS on both commodity clusters and supercomputers, and a scalable performance is achieved. In addition, we provide evaluations on the scalability and performance of both lumped synapse-based simulation and non-lumped synapse-based simulation with different data-graph distribution methods to show the effectiveness and usability of the PBS platform.
The brain,a parallel and distributed system,a cognitive brain,a grand challenge,this paper,we,the parallel brain simulator,the cognitive brain,multiple scales,large-scale graph computation,PBS,a universal parallel execution engine,the complexity,distributed programming,programmable platform,computational neuroscientists,artificial intelligence researchers,modeling,simulation,large-scale neural networks,illustrative examples,validations,three brain-inspired neural networks,PBS,the 1:1 human hippocampus network,the 1:1 mouse whole-brain network,the CASIA brain simulator,cognitive robotics,We,PBS,both commodity clusters,supercomputers,a scalable performance,addition,we,evaluations,the scalability,performance,synapse-based simulation,non-lumped synapse-based simulation,different data-graph distribution methods,the effectiveness,usability,the PBS platform,
Future technologies aiming at restoring and enhancing organs function will intimately rely on near-physiological and energy-efficient communication between living and artificial biomimetic systems. Interfacing brain-inspired devices with the real brain is at the forefront of such emerging field, with the term "neurobiohybrids" indicating all those systems where such interaction is established. We argue that achieving a "high-level" communication and functional synergy between natural and artificial neuronal networks in vivo, will allow the development of a heterogeneous world of neurobiohybrids, which will include "living robots" but will also embrace intelligent" neuroprostheses for augmentation of brain function. The societal and economical impact of intelligent neuroprostheses is likely to be potentially strong, as they will offer novel therapeutic perspectives for a number of diseases, and going beyond classical pharmaceutical schemes. However, they will unavoidably raise fundamental ethical questions on the intermingling between man and machine and more specifically, on how deeply it should be allowed that brain processing is affected by implanted "intelligent" artificial systems. Following this perspective, we provide the reader with insights on ongoing developments and trends in the field of neurobiohybrids. We address the topic also from a "community building" perspective, showing through a quantitative bibliographic analysis, how scientists working on the engineering of brain-inspired devices and brain-machine interfaces are increasing their interactions. We foresee that such trend preludes to a formidable technological and scientific revolution in brain-machine communication and to the opening of new avenues for restoring or even augmenting brain function for therapeutic purposes.
Future technologies,organs,function,near-physiological and energy-efficient communication,living,artificial biomimetic systems,brain-inspired devices,the real brain,the forefront,such emerging field,the term,all those systems,such interaction,We,a "high-level" communication and functional synergy,natural and artificial neuronal networks,vivo,the development,a heterogeneous world,neurobiohybrids,"living robots,intelligent" neuroprostheses,augmentation,brain function,The societal and economical impact,intelligent neuroprostheses,they,novel therapeutic perspectives,a number,diseases,classical pharmaceutical schemes,they,fundamental ethical questions,man,machine,it,brain processing,"intelligent" artificial systems,this perspective,we,the reader,insights,ongoing developments,trends,the field,neurobiohybrids,We,the topic,a "community building" perspective,a quantitative bibliographic analysis,scientists,the engineering,brain-inspired devices,brain-machine interfaces,their interactions,We,that such trend preludes,a formidable technological and scientific revolution,brain-machine communication,the opening,new avenues,brain function,therapeutic purposes,
It has been widely recognized that closed-loop neuroprosthetic systems achieve more favorable outcomes for users then equivalent open-loop devices. Improved performance of tasks, better usability, and greater embodiment have all been reported in systems utilizing some form of feedback. However, the interdisciplinary work on neuroprosthetic systems can lead to miscommunication due to similarities in well-established nomenclature in different fields. Here we present a review of control strategies in existing experimental, investigational and clinical neuroprosthetic systems in order to establish a baseline and promote a common understanding of different feedback modes and closed-loop controllers. The first section provides a brief discussion of feedback control and control theory. The second section reviews the control strategies of recent Brain Machine Interfaces, neuromodulatory implants, neuroprosthetic systems, and assistive neurorobotic devices. The final section examines the different approaches to feedback in current neuroprosthetic and neurorobotic systems.
It,closed-loop neuroprosthetic systems,more favorable outcomes,users,then equivalent open-loop devices,Improved performance,tasks,systems,some form,feedback,the interdisciplinary work,neuroprosthetic systems,miscommunication,similarities,well-established nomenclature,different fields,we,a review,control strategies,existing experimental, investigational and clinical neuroprosthetic systems,order,a baseline,a common understanding,different feedback modes,The first section,a brief discussion,feedback control,control theory,The second section,the control strategies,recent Brain Machine Interfaces,neuromodulatory implants,neuroprosthetic systems,assistive neurorobotic devices,The final section,the different approaches,current neuroprosthetic and neurorobotic systems,
The cerebellar microcircuit has been the work bench for theoretical and computational modeling since the beginning of neuroscientific research. The regular neural architecture of the cerebellum inspired different solutions to the long-standing issue of how its circuitry could control motor learning and coordination. Originally, the cerebellar network was modeled using a statistical-topological approach that was later extended by considering the geometrical organization of local microcircuits. However, with the advancement in anatomical and physiological investigations, new discoveries have revealed an unexpected richness of connections, neuronal dynamics and plasticity, calling for a change in modeling strategies, so as to include the multitude of elementary aspects of the network into an integrated and easily updatable computational framework. Recently, biophysically accurate realistic models using a bottom-up strategy accounted for both detailed connectivity and neuronal non-linear membrane dynamics. In this perspective review, we will consider the state of the art and discuss how these initial efforts could be further improved. Moreover, we will consider how embodied neurorobotic models including spiking cerebellar networks could help explaining the role and interplay of distributed forms of plasticity. We envisage that realistic modeling, combined with closed-loop simulations, will help to capture the essence of cerebellar computations and could eventually be applied to neurological diseases and neurorobotic control systems.
The cerebellar microcircuit,the work bench,theoretical and computational modeling,the beginning,neuroscientific research,The regular neural architecture,the cerebellum,different solutions,the long-standing issue,its circuitry,motor learning,coordination,the cerebellar network,a statistical-topological approach,the geometrical organization,local microcircuits,the advancement,anatomical and physiological investigations,new discoveries,an unexpected richness,connections,neuronal dynamics,plasticity,a change,modeling strategies,the multitude,elementary aspects,the network,an integrated and easily updatable computational framework,biophysically accurate realistic models,a bottom-up strategy,both detailed connectivity,neuronal non-linear membrane dynamics,this perspective review,we,the state,the art,these initial efforts,we,neurorobotic models,cerebellar networks,the role,interplay,distributed forms,plasticity,We,realistic modeling,closed-loop simulations,the essence,cerebellar computations,neurological diseases,neurorobotic control systems,
In situ concept-based computing is based on the notion that conceptual representations in the human brain are "in situ." In this way, they are grounded in perception and action. Examples are neuronal assemblies, whose connection structures develop over time and are distributed over different brain areas. In situ concepts representations cannot be copied or duplicated because that will disrupt their connection structure, and thus the meaning of these concepts. Higher-level cognitive processes, as found in language and reasoning, can be performed with in situ concepts by embedding them in specialized neurally inspired "blackboards." The interactions between the in situ concepts and the blackboards form the basis for in situ concept computing architectures. In these architectures, memory (concepts) and processing are interwoven, in contrast with the separation between memory and processing found in Von Neumann architectures. Because the further development of Von Neumann computing (more, faster, yet power limited) is questionable, in situ concept computing might be an alternative for concept-based computing. In situ concept computing will be illustrated with a recently developed BABI reasoning task. Neurorobotics can play an important role in the development of in situ concept computing because of the development of in situ concept representations derived in scenarios as needed for reasoning tasks. Neurorobotics would also benefit from power limited and in situ concept computing.
situ concept-based computing,the notion,conceptual representations,the human brain,situ,this way,they,perception,action,Examples,neuronal assemblies,whose connection structures,time,different brain areas,situ concepts,representations,their connection structure,these concepts,Higher-level cognitive processes,language,reasoning,situ concepts,them,"blackboards,situ concepts,the blackboards,the basis,situ concept computing architectures,these architectures,memory,contrast,the separation,memory,processing,Von Neumann architectures,the further development,Von Neumann computing,situ concept computing,an alternative,concept-based computing,situ concept computing,a recently developed BABI reasoning task,Neurorobotics,an important role,the development,situ concept computing,the development,situ concept representations,scenarios,reasoning tasks,Neurorobotics,power,situ concept computing,
Objectives. We aimed to develop a robotic interface capable of providing finely-tuned, multidirectional trunk assistance adjusted in real-time during unconstrained locomotion in rats and mice. Approach. We interfaced a large-scale robotic structure actuated in four degrees of freedom to exchangeable attachment modules exhibiting selective compliance along distinct directions. This combination allowed high-precision force and torque control in multiple directions over a large workspace. We next designed a neurorobotic platform wherein real-time kinematics and physiological signals directly adjust robotic actuation and prosthetic actions. We tested the performance of this platform in both rats and mice with spinal cord injury. Main Results. Kinematic analyses showed that the robotic interface did not impede locomotor movements of lightweight mice that walked freely along paths with changing directions and height profiles. Personalized trunk assistance instantly enabled coordinated locomotion in mice and rats with severe hindlimb motor deficits. Closed-loop control of robotic actuation based on ongoing movement features enabled real-time control of electromyographic activity in anti-gravity muscles during locomotion. Significance. This neurorobotic platform will support the study of the mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effects of locomotor prosthetics and rehabilitation using high-resolution genetic tools in rodent models.
We,a robotic interface,finely-tuned, multidirectional trunk assistance,real-time,unconstrained locomotion,rats,mice,We,a large-scale robotic structure,four degrees,freedom,exchangeable attachment modules,selective compliance,distinct directions,This combination,high-precision force,torque control,multiple directions,a large workspace,We,a neurorobotic platform,real-time kinematics,physiological signals,robotic actuation,prosthetic actions,We,the performance,this platform,both rats,mice,spinal cord injury,Kinematic analyses,the robotic interface,locomotor movements,lightweight mice,paths,directions,height profiles,Personalized trunk assistance,coordinated locomotion,mice,rats,severe hindlimb motor deficits,robotic actuation,real-time control,electromyographic activity,anti-gravity muscles,locomotion,This neurorobotic platform,the study,the mechanisms,the therapeutic effects,locomotor prosthetics,rehabilitation,high-resolution genetic tools,rodent models,
In this paper we will propose a modular structure to control the human-like movements of a robot in a way similar to which human brain does to perform the motor control. Modeling of human motor control and motor learning has attracted researchers attention in robotics and artificial intelligence for decades. It is obvious that discovering the motor control functionality of brain as the most complex, sophisticated and powerful information-processing device leads to significant advancements in robots movement Hence, our proposed modular controller is based on human brain behavior in using neural mechanisms named internal models and primitive motion identification which leads to extract and learn the latent simple motions in order to imitate observed complex movements. The study is accomplished based on formerly proposed structure, MOSAIC, which provides remarkable efficiency in motor control modeling. Examination of the proposed structure with real recorded data, confirms the performance of the controller in learning and executing motion tasks. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."
this paper,we,a modular structure,the human-like movements,a robot,a way,human brain,the motor control,Modeling,human motor control,motor learning,researchers attention,robotics,artificial intelligence,decades,It,the motor control functionality,brain,the most complex, sophisticated and powerful information-processing device,significant advancements,robots movement,our proposed modular controller,human brain behavior,neural mechanisms,the latent simple motions,order,complex movements,The study,formerly proposed structure,remarkable efficiency,motor control,modeling,Examination,the proposed structure,real recorded data,the performance,the controller,motion tasks,C) 2015 Elsevier B.V.,All rights,
We present the development and testing of superficial neuromast-inspired flow sensors that also attain high sensitivity and resolution through a biomimetic hyaulronic acid-based hydrogel cupula dressing. The inspiration comes from the spatially distributed neuromasts of the blind cavefish that live in completely dark undersea caves; the sensors enable the fish to form three-dimensional flow and object maps, enabling them to maneuver efficiently in cluttered environments. A canopy shaped electrospun nanofibril scaffold, inspired by the cupular fibrils, assists the drop-casting process allowing the formation of a prolate spheroid-shaped artificial cupula. Rheological and nanoindentation characterizations showed that the Youngs modulus of the artificial cupula closely matches the biological cupula (10-100 Pa). A comparative experimental study conducted to evaluate the sensitivities of the naked hair cell sensor and the cupula-dressed sensor in sensing steady-state flows demonstrated a sensitivity enhancement by 3.5-5 times due to the presence of hydrogel cupula. The novel strategies of sensor development presented in this report are applicable to the design and fabrication of other biomimetic sensors as well. The developed sensors can be used in the navigation and maneuvering of underwater robots, but can also find applications in biomedical and microfluidic devices."
We,the development,testing,superficial neuromast-inspired flow sensors,high sensitivity,resolution,a biomimetic hyaulronic acid-based hydrogel cupula dressing,The inspiration,the spatially distributed neuromasts,the blind cavefish,completely dark undersea caves,the sensors,the fish,three-dimensional flow,object maps,them,cluttered environments,A canopy,electrospun nanofibril scaffold,the cupular fibrils,the drop-casting process,the formation,a prolate spheroid-shaped artificial cupula,Rheological and nanoindentation characterizations,the Youngs modulus,the artificial cupula,the biological cupula,A comparative experimental study,the sensitivities,the naked hair cell sensor,the cupula-dressed sensor,steady-state flows,a sensitivity enhancement,the presence,hydrogel cupula,The novel strategies,sensor development,this report,the design,fabrication,other biomimetic sensors,The developed sensors,the navigation,maneuvering,underwater robots,applications,biomedical and microfluidic devices,
One of most perspective and popular area of neural networks is neuromorphic computing dealing with development of brain-like spike neural networks oriented on hardware implementation. Such neural networks will provide replacement of computers with Von Neumann architecture in such fields as computer vision and control of autonomous robots. In this paper we suggest one model of spike integrate and fire neuron for development of such neural networks. This model is distinguished by simple arithmetic operations, providing, short-long controlled memory of integrated input signals and controlled refractory period for output. Proposed model will provide simple hardware implementation.
most perspective,popular area,neural networks,development,brain-like spike neural networks,hardware implementation,Such neural networks,replacement,computers,Von Neumann architecture,such fields,computer vision,control,autonomous robots,this paper,we,one model,spike integrate,fire neuron,development,such neural networks,This model,simple arithmetic operations,, short-long controlled memory,integrated input signals,controlled refractory period,output,Proposed model,simple hardware implementation,
Todays technological innovations accelerate the persistence of robots for humanitarian purposes. As a significant component, the emerging :role of :robotics and educational technologies has been growing instantly. Several attempts have been introduced in the education sector to promote robotics education, but successful implementation of learning platforms still pose challenges. This paper highlights deployment studies based on a low cost bio-inspired robotics laboratory. The experiments were des eloped as part of a National Mission on Education through ICT, and provided free access to users all over the world. The present study seeks to examine the role of low cost remotely controlled neuro-inspired robotics labs as an educational tool. Our goal was to analyze die diffusion of remotely controlled robotics labs as a new pedagogy for augmenting laboratory education, by enhancing skill training among students, aiding as a teaching element and promoting distant education thereby bringing a sustainable development in robotics based education. Feedback data was collected from 100 science and engineering students, 50 university professors and 100 online users from distant locations to analyze remote robotics labs as an adaptable tool in education. The study suggested perceived usefulness of low cost robotics platform as a supplementary learning and teaching tool for enhancing robotics education. The study also promotes the perceived usage of robotics for vocational skills and as a technology education platfoim for learners."
Todays technological innovations,the persistence,robots,humanitarian purposes,a significant component,the emerging :role,:robotics,educational technologies,Several attempts,the education sector,robotics education,successful implementation,learning platforms,challenges,This paper,deployment studies,a low cost bio-inspired robotics laboratory,The experiments,des,part,a National Mission,Education,ICT,free access,users,the world,The present study,the role,low cost,neuro-inspired robotics labs,an educational tool,Our goal,die diffusion,remotely controlled robotics labs,a new pedagogy,laboratory education,skill training,students,a teaching element,distant education,a sustainable development,robotics,based education,Feedback data,100 science and engineering students,50 university professors,100 online users,distant locations,remote robotics labs,an adaptable tool,education,The study,perceived usefulness,low cost robotics platform,a supplementary learning and teaching tool,robotics education,The study,the perceived usage,robotics,vocational skills,a technology education platfoim,learners,
Vergence control and tracking allow a robot to maintain an accurate estimate of a dynamic object three dimensions, improving depth estimation at the fixation point. Brain-inspired implementations of vergence control are based on models of complex binocular cells of the visual cortex sensitive to disparity. The energy of cells activation provides a disparity-related signal that can be reliably used for vergence control. We implemented such a model on the neuromorphic iCub, equipped with a pair of brain inspired vision sensors. Such sensors provide low-latency, compressed and high temporal resolution visual information related to changes in the scene. We demonstrate the feasibility of a fully neuromorphic system for vergence control and show that this implementation works in real-time, providing fast and accurate control for a moving stimulus up to 2 Hz, sensibly decreasing the latency associated to frame-based cameras. Additionally, thanks to the high dynamic range of the sensor, the control shows the same accuracy under very different illumination.
Vergence control,tracking,a robot,an accurate estimate,a dynamic object,depth estimation,the fixation point,Brain-inspired implementations,vergence control,models,complex binocular cells,the visual cortex,disparity,The energy,cells activation,a disparity-related signal,vergence control,We,such a model,the neuromorphic iCub,a pair,brain inspired vision sensors,Such sensors,low-latency, compressed and high temporal resolution visual information,changes,the scene,We,the feasibility,a fully neuromorphic system,vergence control,this implementation,real-time,fast and accurate control,a moving stimulus,2 Hz,the latency,frame-based cameras,the high dynamic range,the sensor,the control,the same accuracy,very different illumination,
In robotic navigation, biologically inspired localization models have often exhibited interesting features and proven to be competitive with other solutions in terms of adaptability and performance. In general, place recognition systems rely on global or local visual descriptors; or both. In this paper, we propose a model of context-based place cells combining these two information. Global visual features are extracted to represent visual contexts. Based on the idea of global precedence, contexts drive a more refined recognition level which has local visual descriptors as an input. We evaluate this model on a robotic navigation dataset that we recorded in the outdoors. Thus, our contribution is twofold: 1) a bio-inspired model of context-based place recognition using neural networks; and 2) an evaluation assessing its suitability for applications on real robot by comparing it to 4 other architectures - 2 variants of the model and 2 stacking-based solutions - in terms of performance and computational cost. The context-based model gets the highest score based on the three metrics we consider - or is second to one of its variants. Moreover, a key feature makes the computational cost constant over time while it increases with the other methods. These promising results suggest that this model should be a good candidate for a robust place recognition in wide environments.
robotic navigation,biologically inspired localization models,interesting features,other solutions,terms,adaptability,performance,place recognition systems,global or local visual descriptors,this paper,we,a model,context-based place cells,these two information,Global visual features,visual contexts,the idea,global precedence,contexts,a more refined recognition level,local visual descriptors,an input,We,this model,a robotic navigation dataset,we,the outdoors,our contribution,context-based place recognition,neural networks,its suitability,applications,real robot,it,4 other architectures,the model,terms,performance,computational cost,The context-based model,the highest score,the three metrics,we,its variants,a key feature,the computational cost,time,it,the other methods,These promising results,this model,a good candidate,a robust place recognition,wide environments,
The grid cells in the entorhinal cortex of a rodent provides the animal with a unique neurobiological based coordinate system. This coordinate system is from which cognitive maps and spatial awareness are derived. This paper presents a unique neurobiological inspired mobile robot navigation mapping system that emulates the functional characteristics of the grid cell in a field programmable gate array (FPGA) silicon chip. To help develop the algorithms and data flow requirements of the robot, a simulator has been developed and will be covered here also. The FPGA will be used to emulate parallel spatial awareness based neural activity, as well as aid in route planning. The goal is to build a cognitive navigational system that better matches the circuitry found in the rodents brain, as compared too similar, previously researched and developed neurobiological based systems."
The grid cells,the entorhinal cortex,a rodent,the animal,a unique neurobiological based coordinate system,This coordinate system,cognitive maps,spatial awareness,This paper,a unique neurobiological inspired mobile robot navigation mapping system,the functional characteristics,the grid cell,a field programmable gate array,silicon chip,the algorithms,data flow requirements,the robot,a simulator,The FPGA,parallel spatial awareness,based neural activity,route planning,The goal,a cognitive navigational system,the circuitry,the rodents brain,neurobiological based systems,
Developmental robotics suggests that the forward and inverse kinematics should be learned through a sensory-motor mapping, instead of being programmed in advance. Motor babbling and goal babbling are two common approaches to generate training samples used to acquire a sensory-motor mapping. Motor babbling typically needs a considerable amount of training data and time to acquire a sufficient mapping, while goal babbling poses difficulties on how to select appropriate goals. In this paper, we propose a neurobiologically-inspired system to progressively learn a sensory-motor mapping boot-strapped from a simple constrained DOF exploration, which generates much less training data than motor babbling. Our proposed system is designed according to two neurobiologically-inspired paradigms: spatiotemporal prediction and uniformity. The spatiotemporal prediction capability facilitates the acquisition of sensory-motor mappings with less amount of training data on the one hand, and facilitates robust behaviour on the other hand. The uniform system design structure is the foundation for building a scalable architecture for cognitive development. We use an improved version of our predictive action selector (PAS) as building block of our system. We validate a PAS on a 2 DOF robot head where the robot learns object tracking and evading. Then we validate a second PAS on a 5 DOF arm where it learns reaching.
Developmental robotics,the forward and inverse kinematics,a sensory-motor mapping,advance,Motor,goal,two common approaches,training samples,a sensory-motor mapping,Motor,a considerable amount,training data,time,a sufficient mapping,goal,difficulties,appropriate goals,this paper,we,a neurobiologically-inspired system,sensory-motor,a simple constrained DOF exploration,much less training data,motor,Our proposed system,two neurobiologically-inspired paradigms,The spatiotemporal prediction capability,the acquisition,sensory-motor mappings,less amount,training data,the one hand,robust behaviour,the other hand,The uniform system design structure,the foundation,a scalable architecture,cognitive development,We,an improved version,our predictive action,selector,block,our system,We,a PAS,a 2 DOF robot head,the robot,we,a second PAS,a 5 DOF arm,it,
This paper presents a unique neurobiological inspired architecture for mobile robot environment mapping. The target of this mapping architecture is not to create a new mapping system that out performs current state of the art systems. It, however, is an attempt to develop a cognitive map that is based on the grid cell, which is found in the brain (entorhinal cortex) of rodents and other mammals, and is used for spatial cognition in navigation. The hexagonal lattice firing locations of a single grid cell will be emulated in a field programmable gate array silicon chip as individual logic and data storage firing nodes, as well as a central grid cell node. The firing nodes will be used for mapping and will work in parallel to actively aid in route planning. Thus, creating some level of spatial awareness in silicon.
This paper,a unique neurobiological,architecture,mobile robot environment mapping,The target,this mapping architecture,a new mapping system,current state,the art systems,It,an attempt,a cognitive map,the grid cell,the brain,rodents,other mammals,spatial cognition,navigation,The hexagonal lattice,locations,a single grid cell,a field programmable gate array silicon chip,individual logic,data storage firing nodes,a central grid cell node,The firing nodes,mapping,parallel,route planning,some level,spatial awareness,silicon,
Currently, the rapid development of non-industrial robots that are designed with artificial intelligence (AI) methods to improve the robotics system is to have them imitate human thinking and behavior. Therefore, our works have focused on studying and investigating the application of brain-inspired technology for developing the conscious behavior robot (Conbe-I). We created the hierarchical structure model, which is called "Consciousness-Based Architecture: CBA" module, but it has limitation in managing and selecting the behavior that only depends on the increase and decrease of the motivation levels. Consequently, in this paper, we would like to introduce the dynamic behavior selection model based on emotional states, which develops by Self-organizing map learning and Markov model in order to define the relationship between the behavioral selection and emotional expression model. We confirm the effectiveness of the proposed system with the experimental results.
the rapid development,non-industrial robots,artificial intelligence,methods,the robotics system,them,human thinking,behavior,our works,the application,brain-inspired technology,the conscious behavior robot,We,the hierarchical structure model,it,limitation,the behavior,the increase,decrease,the motivation levels,this paper,we,the dynamic behavior selection model,emotional states,Self-organizing map learning,Markov model,order,the relationship,the behavioral selection,emotional expression model,We,the effectiveness,the proposed system,the experimental results,
Neural networks with resistive-switching memory (RRAM) synapses can mimic learning and recognition in the human brain, thus overcoming the major limitations of von Neumann computing architectures. While most researchers aim at supervised learning of a pre-determined set of patterns, unsupervised learning of patterns might be attractive for brain-inspired robot/drone navigation. Here we demonstrate neural networks with CMOS/RRAM synapses capable of unsupervised learning by spike-time dependent plasticity (STDP) and spike-rate dependent plasticity (SRDP). First, STDP learning in a RRAM synaptic network is demonstrated. Then we present a 4-transistor/1-resistor synapse capable of SRDP, finally demonstrating SRDP learning, update, and recognition of patterns at the level of neural network.
resistive-switching memory,synapses,learning,recognition,the human brain,the major limitations,von Neumann computing architectures,most researchers,supervised learning,a pre-determined set,patterns,unsupervised learning,patterns,brain-inspired robot/drone navigation,we,neural networks,CMOS/RRAM synapses,unsupervised learning,spike-time,dependent plasticity,spike-rate dependent plasticity,STDP,a RRAM synaptic network,we,a 4-transistor/1-resistor synapse,SRDP,SRDP,patterns,the level,neural network,
Neuromorphic engineering is a growing and promising discipline nowadays. Neuro-inspiration and brain understanding applied to solve engineering problems is boosting new architectures, solutions and products today. The biological brain and neural systems process information at relatively low speeds through small components, called neurons, and it is impressive how they connect each other to construct complex architectures to solve in a quasi-instantaneous way visual and audio processing tasks, object detection and tracking, target approximation, grasping., etc., with very low power. Neuromorphs are beginning to be very promising for a new era in the development of new sensors, processors, robots and software systems that mimic these biological systems. The event-driven Scorbot (ED-Scorbot) is a robotic arm plus a set of FPGA / microcontrollers boards and a library of FPGA logic joined in a completely event-based framework (spike-based) from the sensors to the actuators. It is located in Seville (University of Seville) and can be used remotely. Spike-based commands, through neuro-inspired motor controllers, can be sent to the robot after visual processing object detection and tracking for grasping or manipulation, after complex visual and audio-visual sensory fusion, or after performing a learning task. Thanks to the cascade FPGA architecture through the Address-Event-Representation (AER) bus, supported by specialized boards, resources for algorithms implementation are not limited."
Neuromorphic engineering,a growing and promising discipline,Neuro-inspiration,brain understanding,engineering problems,new architectures,solutions,products,relatively low speeds,small components,it,they,complex architectures,a quasi-instantaneous way,visual and audio processing tasks,detection,tracking,target approximation,very low power,Neuromorphs,a new era,the development,new sensors,processors,robots,software systems,these biological systems,The event-driven Scorbot,a robotic arm,a set,FPGA / microcontrollers boards,a library,FPGA logic,a completely event-based framework,the sensors,the actuators,It,Seville,Seville,Spike-based commands,neuro-inspired motor controllers,the robot,visual processing object detection,manipulation,complex visual and audio-visual sensory fusion,a learning task,the cascade FPGA architecture,the Address-Event-Representation,specialized boards,resources,algorithms implementation,
In this paper we present a multi-modal human robot interaction architecture which is able to combine information coming from different sensory inputs, and can generate feedback for the user which helps to teach him/her implicitly how to interact with the robot. The system combines vision, speech and language with inference and feedback. The system environment consists of a Nao robot which has to learn objects situated on a table only by understanding absolute and relative object locations uttered by the user and afterwards points on a desired object to show what it has learned. The results of a user study and performance test show the usefulness of the feedback produced by the system and also justify the usage of the system in a real-world applications, as its classification accuracy of multi-modal input is around 80.8%. In the experiments, the system was able to detect inconsistent input coming from different sensory modules in all cases and could generate useful feedback for the user from this information.
this paper,we,a multi-modal human robot interaction architecture,information,different sensory inputs,feedback,the user,him/her,the robot,The system,vision,speech,language,inference,feedback,The system environment,a Nao robot,objects,a table,absolute and relative object locations,the user,a desired object,what,it,The results,a user study,performance test,the usefulness,the feedback,the system,the usage,the system,a real-world applications,its classification accuracy,multi-modal input,around 80.8%,the experiments,the system,inconsistent input,different sensory modules,all cases,useful feedback,the user,this information,
The main challenge of motion planning for a hyper-redundant manipulator is to implement a modular structure ensure real time and high performance of the control system. In this research, we present a strategy to deal with the motion planning problem of a hyper-redundant manipulator, include uncertain time delay to the control system and obstacle avoidance. Similarly to the principles of motor control in human brain, we extract primitive motions from a batch of motion data of a hyperredundant manipulator, and reprogram the complex motions by the sequence of combinations of primitive motions. Based on the neural network algorithm, we present the simulation results of training experiment and testing experiment. All the simulations have confirmed that the proposed control strategy provides remarkable efficiency in motion planning of hyper-redundant manipulators.
The main challenge,motion planning,a hyper-redundant manipulator,a modular structure,real time,high performance,the control system,this research,we,a strategy,the motion planning problem,a hyper-redundant manipulator,uncertain time delay,the control system,obstacle avoidance,the principles,motor control,human brain,we,primitive motions,a batch,motion data,a hyperredundant manipulator,the complex motions,the sequence,combinations,primitive motions,the neural network algorithm,we,the simulation results,training experiment,experiment,All the simulations,the proposed control strategy,remarkable efficiency,motion,planning,hyper-redundant manipulators,
How can we build robot controllers that are able to work under harsh conditions, but without experiencing catastrophic failures? As seen on the recent Fukushimas nuclear disaster, standard robots break down when exposed to high radiation environments. Here we present the results from two arrangements of Spiking Neural Networks, based on the Liquid State Machine (LSM) framework, that were able to gracefully degrade under the effects of a noisy current injected directly into each simulated neuron. These noisy currents could be seen, in a simplified way, as the consequences of exposition to non-destructive radiation. The results show that not only can the systems withstand noise, but one of the configurations, the Modular Parallel LSM, actually improved its results, in a certain range, when the noise levels were increased. Also, the robot controllers implemented in this work are suitable to run on a modern, power efficient neuromorphic hardware such as SpiNNaker."
we,robot controllers,harsh conditions,catastrophic failures,the recent Fukushimas nuclear disaster,standard robots,high radiation environments,we,the results,two arrangements,Spiking Neural Networks,the Liquid State Machine (LSM) framework,the effects,a noisy current,each simulated neuron,These noisy currents,a simplified way,the consequences,exposition,non-destructive radiation,The results,the systems,noise,the configurations,its results,a certain range,the noise levels,the robot controllers,this work,a modern, power efficient neuromorphic hardware,SpiNNaker,
Obstacle detection is crucial for intelligent systems (e.g. robots, unmanned ariel vehicle) that interact with the real world. This paper proposes a brain-inspired rasterization algorithm for obstacle detection. Rasterization algorithm is inspired by the information processing mechanism of the biological brain (including arthropod brain and human brain). Obstacle detection relies on feed forward and feed backward information processing mechanism. Receptive fields in every level of abstraction transmit different sizes of image regions to higher levels. Feedback is related to modulating attention about the position and size of target receptive field. Inspired by the circuit in human vision system, this paper provides a computational model for obstacle detection. Good performance on the experiments supports the proposed theoretical model. The major contribution of the proposed brain-inspired rasterization algorithm is that it can detect obstacle in any size from any direction without any preprocessing.
Obstacle detection,intelligent systems,the real world,This paper,a brain-inspired rasterization algorithm,obstacle detection,Rasterization algorithm,the information processing mechanism,the biological brain,arthropod brain,human brain,Obstacle detection,feed,backward information processing mechanism,Receptive fields,every level,abstraction,different sizes,image regions,higher levels,Feedback,attention,the position,size,target receptive field,the circuit,human vision system,this paper,a computational model,obstacle detection,Good performance,the experiments,the proposed theoretical model,The major contribution,the proposed brain-inspired rasterization algorithm,it,obstacle,any size,any direction,any preprocessing,
Model-driven engineering (MDE) has been successfully adopted in domains such as automation or embedded systems. However, in many other domains, MDE is rarely applied. In this paper, we describe our experiences of applying MDE techniques in the domain of neurorobotics - a combination of neuroscience and robotics, studying the embodiment of autonomous neural systems. In particular, we participated in the development of the Neurorobotics Platform (NRP) - an online platform for describing and running neurorobotic experiments by coupling brain and robot simulations. We explain why MDE was chosen and discuss conceptual and technical challenges, such as inconsistent understanding of models, focus of the development and platform-barriers.
Model-driven engineering,domains,automation,embedded systems,many other domains,MDE,this paper,we,our experiences,MDE techniques,the domain,neurorobotics,a combination,neuroscience,robotics,the embodiment,autonomous neural systems,we,the development,the Neurorobotics Platform,an online platform,neurorobotic experiments,brain,robot,coupling brain and robot simulations,We,MDE,conceptual and technical challenges,inconsistent understanding,models,focus,the development,platform-barriers,
In robotics, one of the most difficult task is to perform a precisely and fast movement of a robotic arm. For paper folding robots, it is still extremely difficult to execute the required manipulations of the paper mainly because the difficulties in modeling and control of the paper. In this paper two control models are proposed to solve this problem. One of the best approaches comes from Neuroscience, where using a humans brain inspired control system known as Cerebellar control model (CCM), precisely and fast movements of a robotic arm can be performed In the CCM a Feedback controller motor command is used as a target signal to train an Artificial Neural Network (NN), and use the output of the NN as a Feed-forward signal. In this paper two training methods were evaluated in order to improve he behavior in CCM: the traditional Back propagation and a Holographic method."
robotics,the most difficult task,a precisely and fast movement,a robotic arm,paper folding robots,it,the required manipulations,the paper,the difficulties,modeling,control,the paper,this paper,two control models,this problem,the best approaches,Neuroscience,a humans brain,inspired control system,Cerebellar control model,movements,a robotic arm,the CCM,a Feedback controller motor command,a target signal,an Artificial Neural Network,the output,the NN,a Feed-forward signal,this paper,two training methods,order,he,he behavior,CCM,


We present an extension of a neurobiologically inspired robotics model, termed CoRLEGO (Choice reaching with a LEGO arm robot). CoRLEGO models experimental evidence from choice reaching tasks (CRT). In a CRT participants are asked to rapidly reach and touch an item presented on the screen. These experiments show that non-target items can divert the reaching movement away from the ideal trajectory to the target item. This is seen as evidence attentional selection of reaching targets can leak into the motor system. Using competitive target selection and topological representations of motor parameters (dynamic neural fields) CoRLEGO is able to mimic this leakage effect. Furthermore if the reaching target is determined by its colour oddity (i.e. a green square among red squares or vice versa), the reaching trajectories become straighter with repetitions of the target colour (colour streaks). This colour priming effect can also be modelled with CoRLEGO. The paper also presents an extension of CoRLEGO. This extension mimics findings that transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) over the motor cortex modulates the colour priming effect (Woodgate et al., 2015). The results with the new CoRLEGO suggest that feedback connections from the motor system to the brains attentional system (parietal cortex) guide visual attention to extract movement-relevant information (i.e. colour) from visual stimuli. This paper adds to growing evidence that there is a close interaction between the motor system and the attention system. This evidence contradicts the traditional conceptualization of the motor system as the endpoint of a serial chain of processing stages. At the end of the paper we discuss CoRLEGOs predictions and also lessons for neurobiologically inspired robotics emerging from this work. Crown Copyright (C) 2015 Published by Elsevier Ltd."
We,an extension,a neurobiologically inspired robotics model,CoRLEGO,Choice,a LEGO arm robot,CoRLEGO,experimental evidence,choice,tasks,a CRT participants,an item,the screen,These experiments,non-target items,the reaching movement,the ideal trajectory,the target item,evidence attentional selection,reaching targets,the motor system,competitive target selection,topological representations,motor parameters,CoRLEGO,this leakage effect,the reaching target,its colour oddity,red squares,the reaching trajectories,repetitions,the target colour,This colour priming effect,CoRLEGO.,The paper,an extension,CoRLEGO.,This extension,findings,transcranial direct current stimulation,the motor cortex,the colour,effect,the colour priming effect (Woodgate et al,The results,the new CoRLEGO,feedback connections,the motor system,the brains attentional system,visual attention,movement-relevant information,visual stimuli,This paper,growing evidence,a close interaction,the motor system,the attention system,This evidence,the traditional conceptualization,the motor system,the endpoint,a serial chain,processing stages,the end,the paper,we,CoRLEGOs predictions,neurobiologically inspired robotics,this work,Elsevier Ltd.,
Mental rotation, a classic experimental paradigm of cognitive psychology, tests the capacity of humans to mentally rotate a seen object to decide if it matches a target object. In recent years, mental rotation has been investigated with brain imaging techniques to identify the brain areas involved. Mental rotation has also been investigated through the development of neural-network models, used to identify the specific mechanisms that underlie its process, and with neurorobotics models to investigate its embodied nature. Current models, however, have limited capacities to relate to neuro-scientific evidence, to generalise mental rotation to new objects, to suitably represent decision making mechanisms, and to allow the study of the effects of overt gestures on mental rotation. The work presented in this study overcomes these limitations by proposing a novel neurorobotic model that has a macro-architecture constrained by knowledge held on brain, encompasses a rather general mental rotation mechanism, and incorporates a biologically plausible decision making mechanism. The model was tested using the humanoid robot iCub in tasks requiring the robot to mentally rotate 2D geometrical images appearing on a computer screen. The results show that the robot gained an enhanced capacity to generalise mental rotation to new objects and to express the possible effects of overt movements of the wrist on mental rotation. The model also represents a further step in the identification of the embodied neural mechanisms that may underlie mental rotation in humans and might also give hints to enhance robots planning capabilities. (C) 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd."
Mental rotation,cognitive psychology,the capacity,humans,a seen object,it,a target object,recent years,mental rotation,brain imaging techniques,the brain areas,Mental rotation,the development,neural-network models,the specific mechanisms,its process,neurorobotics models,its embodied nature,Current models,capacities,neuro-scientific evidence,mental rotation,new objects,decision,mechanisms,the study,the effects,overt gestures,mental rotation,The work,this study,these limitations,a novel neurorobotic model,a macro-architecture,knowledge,brain,a rather general mental rotation mechanism,a biologically plausible decision,The model,the humanoid robot iCub,tasks,the robot,2D geometrical images,a computer screen,The results,the robot,an enhanced capacity,mental rotation,new objects,the possible effects,overt movements,the wrist,mental rotation,The model,a further step,the identification,the embodied neural mechanisms,mental rotation,humans,hints,robots,planning capabilities,Elsevier Ltd.,
The application of biologically inspired methods in design and control has a long tradition in robotics. Unlike previous approaches in this direction, the emerging field of neurorobotics not only mimics biological mechanisms at a relatively high level of abstraction but employs highly realistic simulations of actual biological nervous systems. Even today, carrying out these simulations efficiently at appropriate timescales is challenging. Neuromorphic chip designs specially tailored to this task therefore offer an interesting perspective for neurorobotics. Unlike Von Neumann CPUs, these chips cannot be simply programmed with a standard programming language. Like real brains, their functionality is determined by the structure of neural connectivity and synaptic efficacies. Enabling higher cognitive functions for neurorobotics consequently requires the application of neurobiological learning algorithms to adjust synaptic weights in a biologically plausible way. In this paper, we therefore investigate how to program neuromorphic chips by means of learning. First, we provide an overview over selected neuromorphic chip designs and analyze them in terms of neural computation, communication systems and software infrastructure. On the theoretical side, we review neurobiological learning techniques. Based on this overview, we then examine on-die implementations of these learning algorithms on the considered neuromorphic chips. A final discussion puts the findings of this work into context and highlights how neuromorphic hardware can potentially advance the field of autonomous robot systems. The paper thus gives an in-depth overview of neuromorphic implementations of basic mechanisms of synaptic plasticity which are required to realize advanced cognitive capabilities with spiking neural networks. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The application,biologically inspired methods,design,control,a long tradition,robotics,previous approaches,this direction,the emerging field,neurorobotics,biological mechanisms,a relatively high level,abstraction,highly realistic simulations,actual biological nervous systems,these simulations,appropriate timescales,Neuromorphic chip designs,this task,an interesting perspective,neurorobotics,Von Neumann CPUs,these chips,a standard programming language,real brains,their functionality,the structure,neural connectivity,synaptic efficacies,higher cognitive functions,neurorobotics,the application,neurobiological learning algorithms,synaptic weights,a biologically plausible way,this paper,we,neuromorphic chips,means,learning,we,an overview,selected neuromorphic chip designs,them,terms,neural computation,communication systems,software infrastructure,the theoretical side,we,neurobiological learning techniques,this overview,we,die,on-die implementations,these learning algorithms,the considered neuromorphic chips,A final discussion,the findings,this work,context,neuromorphic hardware,the field,autonomous robot systems,The paper,an in-depth overview,neuromorphic implementations,basic mechanisms,synaptic plasticity,advanced cognitive capabilities,neural networks,All rights,
Humans and other animals have been shown to perform near-optimally in multi-sensory integration tasks. Probabilistic population codes (PPCs) have been proposed as a mechanism by which optimal integration can be accomplished. Previous approaches have focussed on how neural networks might produce PPCs from sensory input or perform calculations using them, like combining multiple PPCs. Less attention has been given to the question of how the necessary organisation of neurons can arise and how the required knowledge about the input statistics can be learned. In this paper, we propose a model of learning multi-sensory integration based on an unsupervised learning algorithm in which an artificial neural network learns the noise characteristics of each of its sources of input. Our algorithm borrows from the self-organising map the ability to learn latent-variable models of the input and extends it to learning to produce a PPC approximating a probability density function over the latent variable behind its (noisy) input. The neurons in our network are only required to perform simple calculations and we make few assumptions about input noise properties and tuning functions. We report on a neurorobotic experiment in which we apply our algorithm to multi-sensory integration in a humanoid robot to demonstrate its effectiveness and compare it to human multi-sensory integration on the behavioural level. We also show in simulations that our algorithm performs near-optimally under certain plausible conditions, and that it reproduces important aspects of natural multi-sensory integration on the neural level.
Humans,other animals,multi-sensory integration tasks,Probabilistic population codes,a mechanism,optimal integration,Previous approaches,neural networks,PPCs,sensory input,calculations,them,multiple PPCs,Less attention,the question,the necessary organisation,neurons,the required knowledge,the input statistics,this paper,we,a model,multi-sensory integration,an unsupervised learning algorithm,an artificial neural network,the noise characteristics,its sources,input,Our algorithm,the self-organising map,the ability,latent-variable models,the input,it,a PPC,a probability density function,the latent variable,its (noisy) input,The neurons,our network,simple calculations,we,few assumptions,input noise properties,tuning functions,We,a neurorobotic experiment,we,our algorithm,multi-sensory integration,a humanoid robot,its effectiveness,it,human multi-sensory integration,the behavioural level,We,simulations,our algorithm,certain plausible conditions,it,important aspects,natural multi-sensory integration,the neural level,
Neuromorphic computing - brain-like computing in hardware - typically requires myriad complimentary metal oxide semiconductor spiking neurons interconnected by a dense mesh of nanoscale plastic synapses. Memristors are frequently cited as strong synapse candidates due to their statefulness and potential for low-power implementations. To date, plentiful research has focused on the bipolar memristor synapse, which is capable of incremental weight alterations and can provide adaptive self-organisation under a Hebbian learning scheme. In this paper, we consider the unipolar memristor synapse - a device capable of non-Hebbian switching between only two states (conductive and resistive) through application of a suitable input voltage - and discuss its suitability for neuromorphic systems. A self-adaptive evolutionary process is used to autonomously find highly fit network configurations. Experimentation on two robotics tasks shows that unipolar memristor networks evolve task-solving controllers faster than both bipolar memristor networks and networks containing constant non-plastic connections whilst performing at least comparably.
Neuromorphic computing - brain-like computing,hardware,myriad complimentary metal oxide semiconductor spiking neurons,a dense mesh,nanoscale plastic synapses,Memristors,strong synapse candidates,their statefulness,low-power implementations,date,plentiful research,the bipolar memristor synapse,incremental weight alterations,adaptive self-organisation,a Hebbian learning scheme,this paper,we,the unipolar memristor synapse,non-Hebbian switching,only two states,application,a suitable input voltage,its suitability,neuromorphic systems,A self-adaptive evolutionary process,highly fit network configurations,Experimentation,two robotics tasks,unipolar memristor networks,task-solving controllers,both bipolar memristor networks,networks,constant non-plastic connections,
In this article, we introduce the Bioinspired Neuroprosthetic Design Environment (BNDE) as a practical platform for the development of novel brain-machine interface (BMI) controllers, which are based on spiking model neurons. We built the BNDE around a hard real-time system so that it is capable of creating simulated synapses from extra-cellularly recorded neurons to model neurons. In order to evaluate the practicality of the BNDE for neuroprosthetic control experiments, a novel, adaptive BMI controller was developed and tested using real-time closed-loop simulations. The present controller consists of two in silico medium spiny neurons, which receive simulated synaptic inputs from recorded motor cortical neurons. In the closed-loop simulations, the recordings from the cortical neurons were imitated using an external, hardware-based neural signal synthesizer. By implementing a reward-modulated spike timing-dependent plasticity rule, the controller achieved perfect target reach accuracy for a two-target reaching task in one-dimensional space. The BNDE combines the flexibility of software-based spiking neural network (SNN) simulations with powerful online data visualization tools and is a low-cost, PC-based, and all-in-one solution for developing neurally inspired BMI controllers. We believe that the BNDE is the first implementation, which is capable of creating hybrid biological/in silico neural networks for motor neuroprosthetic control and utilizes multiple CPU cores for computationally intensive real-time SNN simulations.
this article,we,the Bioinspired Neuroprosthetic Design Environment,a practical platform,the development,novel brain-machine interface,controllers,model neurons,We,the BNDE,a hard real-time system,it,simulated synapses,extra-cellularly recorded neurons,model neurons,order,the practicality,the BNDE,neuroprosthetic control experiments,adaptive BMI controller,real-time closed-loop simulations,The present controller,silico medium spiny neurons,simulated synaptic inputs,recorded motor cortical neurons,the closed-loop simulations,the recordings,the cortical neurons,an external, hardware-based neural signal synthesizer,a reward-modulated spike,timing-dependent plasticity rule,the controller,perfect target,accuracy,a two-target,task,one-dimensional space,The BNDE,the flexibility,neural network,software-based spiking neural network (SNN) simulations,powerful online data visualization tools,all-in-one solution,BMI controllers,We,the BNDE,the first implementation,hybrid biological/in,silico neural networks,motor neuroprosthetic control,multiple CPU cores,computationally intensive real-time SNN simulations,
Neurorobots enable researchers to study how behaviors are produced by neural mechanisms in an uncertain, noisy, real-world environment. To investigate how the somatosensory system processes noisy, real-world touch inputs, we introduce a neurorobot called CARL-SJR, which has a full-body tactile sensory area. The design of CARL-SJR is such that it encourages people to communicate with it through gentle touch. CARL-SJR provides feedback to users by displaying bright colors on its surface. In the present study, we show that CARL-SJR is capable of learning associations between conditioned stimuli (CS; a color pattern on its surface) and unconditioned stimuli (US; a preferred touch pattern) by applying a spiking neural network (SNN) with neurobiologically inspired plasticity. Specifically, we modeled the primary somatosensory cortex, prefrontal cortex, striatum, and the insular cortex, which is important for hedonic touch, to process noisy data generated directly from CARL-SJRs tactile sensory area. To facilitate learning, we applied dopamine-modulated Spike Timing Dependent Plasticity (STDP) to our simulated prefrontal cortex, striatum, and insular cortex. To cope with noisy, varying inputs, the SNN was tuned to produce traveling waves of activity that carried spatiotemporal information. Despite the noisy tactile sensors, spike trains, and variations in subject hand swipes, the learning was quite robust. Further, insular cortex activities in the incremental pathway of dopaminergic reward system allowed us to control CARL-SJRs preference for touch direction without heavily pre-processed inputs. The emerged behaviors we found in this model match animals behaviors wherein they prefer touch in particular areas and directions. Thus, the results in this paper could serve as an explanation on the underlying neural mechanisms for developing tactile preferences and hedonic touch."
Neurorobots,researchers,behaviors,neural mechanisms,an uncertain, noisy, real-world environment,the somatosensory system,noisy, real-world touch inputs,we,a neurorobot,a full-body tactile sensory area,The design,CARL-SJR,it,people,it,gentle touch,CARL-SJR,feedback,users,bright colors,its surface,the present study,we,CARL-SJR,associations,conditioned stimuli,its surface,a spiking neural network,neurobiologically inspired plasticity,we,the primary somatosensory cortex,the insular cortex,hedonic touch,noisy data,CARL-SJRs,learning,we,dopamine-modulated Spike Timing Dependent Plasticity,our simulated prefrontal cortex,striatum,insular cortex,varying inputs,the SNN,traveling waves,activity,spatiotemporal information,the noisy tactile sensors,trains,variations,subject hand swipes,the learning,insular cortex activities,the incremental pathway,dopaminergic reward system,us,CARL-SJRs preference,touch direction,heavily pre-processed inputs,we,this model match,animals behaviors,they,particular areas,directions,the results,this paper,an explanation,the underlying neural mechanisms,tactile preferences,hedonic touch,
Dexterous reaching, pointing, and grasping play a critical role in human interactions with tools and the environment, and it also allows individuals to interact with one another effectively in social settings. Developing robotic systems with mental simulation and imitation learning abilities for such tasks seems a promising way to enhance robot performance as well as to enable interactions with humans in a social context. In spite of important advances in artificial intelligence and smart robotics, current robotic systems lack the flexibility and adaptability that humans so naturally exhibit. Here we present and study a neural architecture that captures some critical visuo-spatial transformations that are required for the cognitive processes of mental simulation and imitation. The results show that our neural model can perform accurate, flexible and robust 3D unimanual and bimanual actual/imagined reaching movements while avoiding extreme joint positions and generating kinematics similar to those observed with humans. In addition, using visuo-spatial transformations, the neural model was able to observe/imitate bimanual arm reaching movements independently of the viewpoint, distance and anthropometry between the demonstrator and imitator. Our model is a first step towards developing a more advanced neurally-inspired hierarchical architecture that integrates mental simulation and sensorimotor processing as it learns to imitate dexterous bimanual arm movements.
a critical role,human interactions,tools,the environment,it,individuals,social settings,robotic systems,mental simulation,abilities,such tasks,robot performance,interactions,humans,a social context,spite,important advances,artificial intelligence and smart robotics, current robotic systems,the flexibility,adaptability,humans,we,a neural architecture,some critical visuo-spatial transformations,the cognitive processes,mental simulation,imitation,The results,our neural model,movements,extreme joint positions,kinematics,humans,addition,visuo-spatial transformations,the neural model,observe/imitate bimanual arm,movements,the viewpoint,distance,anthropometry,the demonstrator,imitator,Our model,a first step,a more advanced neurally-inspired hierarchical architecture,mental simulation,sensorimotor processing,it,dexterous bimanual arm movements,
Neuropsychological phenomena have been modelized mainly, by the mainstream approach, by attempting to reproduce their neural substrate whereas sensory-motor contingencies have attracted less attention. In this work, we introduce a simulator based on the evolutionary robotics platform Evorobot* in order to setting up in silico neuropsychological tasks. Moreover, in this study we trained artificial embodied neurorobotic agents equipped with a pan/tilt camera, provided with different neural and motor capabilities, to solve a well-known neuropsychological test: the cancellation task in which an individual is asked to cancel target stimuli surrounded by distractors. Results showed that embodied agents provided with additional motor capabilities (a zooming/attentional actuator) outperformed simple pan/tilt agents, even those equipped with more complex neural controllers and that the zooming ability is exploited to correctly categorising presented stimuli. We conclude that since the sole neural computational power cannot explain the (artificial) cognition which emerged throughout the adaptive process, such kind of modelling approach can be fruitful in neuropsychological modelling where the importance of having a body is often neglected.
Neuropsychological phenomena,the mainstream approach,their neural substrate,sensory-motor contingencies,less attention,this work,we,a simulator,the evolutionary robotics platform Evorobot,order,silico neuropsychological tasks,this study,we,artificial embodied neurorobotic agents,a pan/tilt camera,different neural and motor capabilities,a well-known neuropsychological test,an individual,target stimuli,distractors,Results,embodied agents,additional motor capabilities,simple pan/tilt agents,more complex neural controllers,the zooming ability,presented stimuli,We,the sole neural computational power,the (artificial) cognition,the adaptive process,such kind,modelling approach,neuropsychological modelling,the importance,a body,
Neurobiological systems have often been a source of inspiration for computational science and engineering, but in the past their impact has also been limited by the understanding of biological models. Today, new technologies lead to an equilibrium situation where powerful and complex computers bring new biological knowledge of the brain behavior. At this point, we possess sufficient understanding to both imagine new brain-inspired computing paradigms and to sustain a classical paradigm which reaches its end programming and intellectual limitations. In this context, we propose to reconsider the computation problem first in the specific domain of mobile robotics. Our main proposal consists in considering computation as part of a global adaptive system, composed of sensors, actuators, a source of energy and a controlling unit. During the adaptation process, the proposed brain-inspired computing structure does not only execute the tasks of the application but also reacts to the external stimulation and acts on the emergent behavior of the system. This approach is inspired by cortical plasticity in mammalian brains and suggests developing the computation architecture along the systems experience. This article proposes modeling this plasticity as a problem of estimating a probability density function. This function would correspond to the nature and the richness of the environment perceived through multiple modalities. We define and develop a novel neural model solving the problem in a distributed and sparse manner. And we integrate this neural map into a bio-inspired hardware substrate that brings the plasticity property into parallel many-core architectures. The approach is then called Hardware Plasticity. The results show that the self-organization properties of our model solve the problem of multimodal sensory data clusterization. The properties of the proposed model allow envisaging the deployment of this adaptation layer into hardware architectures embedded into the robots body in order to build intelligent controllers."
Neurobiological systems,a source,inspiration,computational science,engineering,their impact,the understanding,biological models,new technologies,an equilibrium situation,computers,new biological knowledge,the brain behavior,this point,we,sufficient understanding,new brain-inspired computing paradigms,a classical paradigm,its end programming,intellectual limitations,this context,we,the computation problem,the specific domain,mobile robotics,Our main proposal,computation,part,a global adaptive system,sensors,actuators,energy,a controlling unit,the adaptation process,the proposed brain-inspired computing structure,the tasks,the application,the external stimulation,the emergent behavior,the system,This approach,cortical plasticity,mammalian brains,the computation architecture,the systems experience,This article,this plasticity,a problem,a probability density function,This function,the nature,the environment,multiple modalities,We,a novel neural model,the problem,a distributed and sparse manner,we,this neural map,a bio-inspired hardware substrate,the plasticity property,parallel many-core architectures,The approach,The results,the self-organization properties,our model,the problem,multimodal sensory data clusterization,The properties,the proposed model,the deployment,this adaptation layer,hardware architectures,the robots body,order,intelligent controllers,
During the last two decades, analysis of 1/f noise in cognitive science has led to a considerable progress in the way we understand the organization of our mental life. However, there is still a lack of specific models providing explanations of how 1/f noise is generated in coupled brain-body-environment systems, since existing models and experiments typically target either externally observable behaviour or isolated neuronal systems but do not address the interplay between neuronal mechanisms and sensorimotor dynamics. We present a conceptual model of a minimal neurorobotic agent solving a behavioural task that makes it possible to relate mechanistic (neurodynamic) and behavioural levels of description. The model consists of a simulated robot controlled by a network of Kuramoto oscillators with homeostatic plasticity and the ability to develop behavioural preferences mediated by sensorimotor patterns. With only three oscillators, this simple model displays self-organized criticality in the form of robust 1/f noise and a wide multifractal spectrum. We show that the emergence of self-organized criticality and 1/f noise in our model is the result of three simultaneous conditions: a) non-linear interaction dynamics capable of generating stable collective patterns, b) internal plastic mechanisms modulating the sensorimotor flows, and c) strong sensorimotor coupling with the environment that induces transient metastable neurodynamic regimes. We carry out a number of experiments to show that both synaptic plasticity and strong sensorimotor coupling play a necessary role, as constituents of self-organized criticality, in the generation of 1/f noise. The experiments also shown to be useful to test the robustness of 1/f scaling comparing the results of different techniques. We finally discuss the role of conceptual models as mediators between nomothetic and mechanistic models and how they can inform future experimental research where self-organized critically includes sensorimotor coupling among the essential interaction-dominant process giving rise to 1/f noise.
the last two decades,analysis,1/f noise,cognitive science,a considerable progress,the way,we,the organization,our mental life,a lack,specific models,explanations,1/f noise,coupled brain-body-environment systems,existing models,experiments,either externally observable behaviour,isolated neuronal systems,the interplay,neuronal mechanisms,sensorimotor dynamics,We,a conceptual model,a minimal neurorobotic agent,a behavioural task,it,mechanistic (neurodynamic) and behavioural levels,description,The model,a simulated robot,a network,Kuramoto oscillators,homeostatic plasticity,the ability,behavioural preferences,sensorimotor patterns,only three oscillators,this simple model,self-organized criticality,the form,robust 1/f noise,a wide multifractal spectrum,We,the emergence,self-organized criticality,1/f noise,our model,the result,three simultaneous conditions,stable collective patterns,internal plastic mechanisms,the sensorimotor,the environment,transient metastable neurodynamic regimes,We,a number,experiments,both synaptic plasticity,sensorimotor coupling,strong sensorimotor coupling play,a necessary role,constituents,self-organized criticality,the generation,1/f noise,The experiments,the robustness,the results,different techniques,We,the role,conceptual models,mediators,nomothetic and mechanistic models,they,future experimental research,sensorimotor coupling,the essential interaction-dominant process,rise,1/f noise,
This paper presents a statistical study on a neuro-inspired spike-based implementation of the Vector-Integration-To-End-Point motor controller (SVITE) and compares its deterministic neuron-model stream of spikes with a proposed modification that converts the model, and thus the controller, in a Poisson like spike stream distribution. A set of hardware pseudo-random numbers generators, based on a Linear Feedback Shift Register (LFSR), have been introduced in the neuron-model so that they reach a closer biological neuron behavior. To validate the new neuron-model behavior a comparison between the Inter-Spikes-Interval empirical data and the Exponential and Gamma distributions has been carried out using the Kolmogorov-Smirnoff test. An in-hardware validation of the controller has been performed in a Spartan6 FPGA to drive directly with spikes DC motors from robotics to study the behavior and viability of the modified controller with random components. The results show that the original deterministic spikes distribution of the controller blocks can be swapped with Poisson distributions using 30-bit LFSRs. The comparative between the usable controlling signals such as the trajectory and the speed profile using a deterministic and the new controller show a standard deviation of 11.53 spikes/s and 3.86 spikes/s respectively. These rates do not affect our system because, within Pulse Frequency Modulation, in order to drive the motors, time length can be fixed to spread the spikes. Tuning this value, the slow rates could be filtered by the motor. Therefore, this SVITE neuro-inspired controller can be integrated within complex neuromorphic architectures with Poisson-like neurons. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This paper,a statistical study,a neuro-inspired spike-based implementation,the Vector-Integration-To-End-Point motor controller,its deterministic neuron-model stream,spikes,a proposed modification,the model,a Poisson like spike stream distribution,A set,hardware pseudo-random numbers generators,a Linear Feedback Shift Register,the neuron-model,they,a closer biological neuron behavior,the new neuron-model behavior,a comparison,the Inter-Spikes-Interval empirical data,the Exponential and Gamma distributions,the Kolmogorov-Smirnoff test,hardware,An in-hardware validation,the controller,a Spartan6 FPGA,spikes,DC motors,robotics,the behavior,viability,the modified controller,random components,The results,the original deterministic spikes distribution,the controller blocks,Poisson distributions,30-bit LFSRs,the usable controlling signals,the trajectory,the speed profile,the new controller show,a standard deviation,11.53 spikes/s,3.86 spikes/s,These rates,our system,Pulse Frequency Modulation,order,the motors,time length,the spikes,this value,the slow rates,the motor,this SVITE neuro-inspired controller,complex neuromorphic architectures,Poisson-like neurons,All rights,
Paper deals with Cloud-based Robotics approach which seems to be very supported by new technologies in the area of Cloud computing. In this paper, we will present and early implementation of a system for cloud-based object recognition. The primary use of the system is to provide an object recognition as a service for a wide range of devices. The main benefit of using the cloud as a platform are easy scalability in the future and mainly the sharing of already collected knowledge between all devices using this system. The system consist of feature extraction part and the classification part. For feature extraction, SIFT and SURF are used, and for the classification, the MF ArtMap has been used. In this paper, the implementation of both parts will be presented in more detail, as well as preliminary results. We do assume that Cloud Robotics and Brain research for Robots will emerge into a functional system able to share and utilize common knowledge and also personalization in close future.
Paper deals,Cloud-based Robotics approach,new technologies,the area,Cloud computing,this paper,we,a system,cloud-based object recognition,The primary use,the system,an object recognition,a service,a wide range,devices,The main benefit,the cloud,a platform,easy scalability,the future,mainly the sharing,already collected knowledge,all devices,this system,feature extraction part,feature extraction,SIFT,the classification,the MF ArtMap,this paper,the implementation,both parts,more detail,preliminary results,We,Cloud Robotics and Brain research,Robots,a functional system,common knowledge,close future,
An event-based motor controller design is presented. The system is designed to solve the classic inverted pendulum problem by using a robotic platform and a totally neuro-inspired event-based mechanism. Specifically, DVS retinas provide feedback and an FPGA implements control. The robotic platform used is the so called pencil balancer. The retinas provide visual information to the FPGA that processes it and obtains the center of mass of the pencil. Once this center of mass is averaged over time, it is used joint with the cart position provided by a flat potentiometer bar to compute the angle of the pencil from the vertical. The angle is delivered to an event-based Proportional-Derivative (PD) controller that drives the DC motor using Pulse Frequency Modulation (PFM) to accomplish the control objective. The results show an accurate, real-time and efficient controller design."
An event-based motor controller design,The system,the classic inverted pendulum problem,a robotic platform,a totally neuro-inspired event-based mechanism,feedback,FPGA,an FPGA implements control,The robotic platform,the so called pencil balancer,The retinas,visual information,the FPGA,it,the center,mass,the pencil,this center,mass,time,it,the cart position,a flat potentiometer bar,the angle,the pencil,The angle,the DC motor,Pulse Frequency Modulation,the control objective,The results,an accurate, real-time and efficient controller design,
We present the design and analysis of a multisession user study conducted with older adults to evaluate the effectiveness of a human-robot interaction (HRI) framework utilizing a neuroscience-inspired spatial language interpretation approach. The user study was designed to: 1) evaluate the effectiveness and feasibility of the spatial language interpretation framework with target users, and 2) collect data on the types of phrases, responses, and format of natural language instructions given by target users to help inform possible modifications to the HRI framework. In addition, an expanded study was conducted on Amazons Mechanical Turk to gather further natural language instructions from general users for analysis. The results of both studies, evaluated across a variety of objective performance and participant evaluation measures, demonstrate the feasibility of the approach and its effectiveness in interpreting and following natural language instructions from target users, achieving high task success rates and high participant evaluations across multiple measures."
We,the design,analysis,a multisession user study,older adults,the effectiveness,a human-robot interaction,framework,a neuroscience-inspired spatial language interpretation approach,The user study,the effectiveness,feasibility,the spatial language interpretation framework,target users,data,the types,phrases,responses,format,natural language instructions,target users,possible modifications,the HRI framework,addition,an expanded study,Amazons Mechanical Turk,further natural language instructions,general users,analysis,The results,both studies,a variety,objective performance,participant evaluation measures,the feasibility,the approach,its effectiveness,interpreting,natural language instructions,target users,high task success rates,high participant evaluations,multiple measures,


Research in the fields of Psychology and Neuroscience have provided strong evidence that mammals can adaptively switch between goal-directed behaviors - i.e. deliberative decisions based on costly but flexible planned long-term consequences of actions - and habitual behaviors - i.e. reactive behaviors that are efficient when the environment is stable but inflexible in the case of environmental changes. However, the computational principles underlying this switching ability are not yet understood, and several alternative criteria have been proposed, each tested on specific subsets of experimental datasets. Here we present a neurorobotic implementation and comparison of such type of criteria, plus some new ones imported from the field of ensemble reinforcement learning, with a twofold objective: on the one hand exploring the possible efficiency of such bio-inspired principles to enable robots to have more behavioral flexibility during autonomous development and learning; on the other hand, analyzing whether an asynchronous continuous robotic simulation and comparison of these criteria in a common task can feed current debates in the Psychological and Neuroscience fields. We evaluate these methods in an apparently simple repetitive cube-pushing task on a simulated conveyor belt, but which imposes to the robot constant trade-offs between speed and accuracy and between stability and abrupt changes. Our results show that if overall performance is not improved by using multiple behavioral systems in a stable environment, these methods allow for a better adaptation to environmental changes. The Voting methods and Boltzmann addition, from ensemble reinforcement learning, give the best performance, providing an interesting alternative to Expert selection.
Research,the fields,Psychology,strong evidence,mammals,goal-directed behaviors,costly but flexible planned long-term consequences,actions,habitual behaviors,the environment,the case,environmental changes,the computational principles,this switching ability,several alternative criteria,specific subsets,experimental datasets,we,a neurorobotic implementation,comparison,such type,criteria,some new ones,the field,ensemble reinforcement learning,a twofold objective,the one hand,the possible efficiency,such bio-inspired principles,robots,more behavioral flexibility,autonomous development,learning,the other hand,an asynchronous continuous robotic simulation,comparison,these criteria,a common task,current debates,the Psychological and Neuroscience fields,We,these methods,an apparently simple repetitive cube-pushing task,a simulated conveyor belt,the robot constant trade-offs,speed,accuracy,stability,abrupt changes,Our results,overall performance,multiple behavioral systems,a stable environment,these methods,a better adaptation,environmental changes,The Voting methods,Boltzmann addition,ensemble reinforcement learning,the best performance,an interesting alternative,Expert selection,
Developing neuro-inspired computing paradigms that mimic nervous system function is an emerging field of research that fosters our model understanding of the biological system and targets technical applications in artificial systems. The computational power of simulated brain circuits makes them a very promising tool for the development for brain-controlled robots. Early phases of robotic controllers development make extensive use of simulators as they are easy, fast and cheap tools. In order to develop robotics controllers that encompass brain models, a tool that include both neural simulation and physics simulation is missing. Such a tool would require the capability of orchestrating and synchronizing both simulations as well as managing the exchange of data between them. The Neurorobotics Platform (NRP) aims at filling this gap through an integrated software toolkit enabling an experimenter to design and execute a virtual experiment with a simulated robot using customized brain models. As a use case for the NRP, the iCub robot has been integrated into the platform and connected to a spiking neural network. In particular, experiments of visual tracking have been conducted in order to demonstrate the potentiality of such a platform.
neuro-inspired computing paradigms,nervous system function,an emerging field,research,our model understanding,the biological system,technical applications,artificial systems,The computational power,simulated brain circuits,them,the development,brain-controlled robots,Early phases,robotic controllers development,extensive use,simulators,they,fast and cheap tools,order,robotics controllers,brain models,a tool,both neural simulation,physics simulation,Such a tool,the capability,both simulations,the exchange,data,them,The Neurorobotics Platform,this gap,an integrated software toolkit,an experimenter,a virtual experiment,a simulated robot,customized brain models,a use case,the NRP,the iCub robot,the platform,a spiking neural network,experiments,visual tracking,order,the potentiality,such a platform,
A key requirement for modern large scale neuromorphic systems is the ability to detect and diagnose faults and to explore self-correction strategies. In particular, to perform this under area-constraints which meet scalability requirements of large neuromorphic systems. A bio-inspired online fault detection and self-correction mechanism for neuro-inspired PID controllers is presented in this paper. This strategy employs a fault detection unit for online testing of the PID controller; uses a fault detection manager to perform the detection procedure across multiple controllers, and a controller selection mechanism to select an available fault-free controller to provide a corrective step in restoring system functionality. The novelty of the proposed work is that the fault detection method, using synapse models with excitatory and inhibitory responses, is applied to a robotic spike-based PID controller. The results are presented for robotic motor controllers and show that the proposed bio-inspired self-detection and self-correction strategy can detect faults and re-allocate resources to restore the controllers functionality. In particular, the case study demonstrates the compactness (similar to 1.4% area overhead) of the fault detection mechanism for large scale robotic controllers."
A key requirement,modern large scale neuromorphic systems,the ability,faults,self-correction strategies,area-constraints,scalability requirements,large neuromorphic systems,A bio-inspired online fault detection,self-correction,mechanism,neuro-inspired PID controllers,this paper,This strategy,a fault detection unit,online testing,the PID controller,a fault detection manager,the detection procedure,multiple controllers,an available fault-free controller,a corrective step,system functionality,The novelty,the proposed work,the fault detection method,synapse models,excitatory,inhibitory,responses,a robotic spike-based PID controller,The results,robotic motor controllers,the proposed bio-inspired self-detection,self-correction strategy,faults,resources,the controllers functionality,the case study,the compactness,1.4% area,the fault detection mechanism,large scale robotic controllers,
Combining model-based and model-free reinforcement learning systems in robotic cognitive architectures appears as a promising direction to endow artificial agents with flexibility and decisional autonomy close to mammals. In particular, it could enable robots to build an internal model of the environment, plan within it in response to detected environmental changes, and avoid the cost and time of planning when the stability of the environment is recognized as enabling habit learning. However, previously proposed criteria for the coordination of these two learning systems do not scale up to the large, partial and uncertain models autonomously learned by robots. Here we precisely analyze the performances of these two systems in an asynchronous robotic simulation of a cube-pushing task requiring a permanent trade-off between speed and accuracy. We propose solutions to make learning successful in these conditions. We finally discuss possible criteria for their efficient coordination within robotic cognitive architectures.
model-based and model-free reinforcement learning systems,robotic cognitive architectures,a promising direction,artificial agents,flexibility,decisional autonomy,mammals,it,robots,an internal model,the environment,it,response,detected environmental changes,the cost,time,planning,the stability,the environment,habit learning,criteria,the coordination,these two learning systems,the large, partial and uncertain models,robots,we,the performances,these two systems,an asynchronous robotic simulation,a cube-pushing task,a permanent trade-off,speed,accuracy,We,solutions,these conditions,We,possible criteria,their efficient coordination,robotic cognitive architectures,
How experienced emotional states, induced by the events that emerge in our context, influence our behaviour? Are they an obstacle or a helpful assistant for our reasoning process? Antonio Damasio gave exhaustive answers to these questions through his studies on patients with brain injuries. He demonstrated how the emotions guide decision-making and he has identified a region of the brain which has a fundamental role in this process. Antoine Bechara devised a test to validate the proper functioning of that cortical region of the brain. Inspired from Damasios theories we developed a mechanism in an artificial agent that enables it to represent emotional states and to exploit them for biasing its decisions. We also implement the card gambling task that Bechara used on his patients as a validating test. Finally we put our artificial agent through this test for 100 trials. The results of this experiment are analysed and discussed highlighting the demonstrated efficiency of the implemented somatic marker mechanism and the potential impact of this system in the field of social robotics."
the events,our context,our behaviour,they,an obstacle,a helpful assistant,our reasoning process,Antonio Damasio,exhaustive answers,these questions,his studies,patients,brain injuries,He,the emotions,decision-making,he,a region,the brain,a fundamental role,this process,Antoine Bechara,a test,the proper functioning,that cortical region,the brain,Damasios theories,we,a mechanism,an artificial agent,it,emotional states,them,its decisions,We,the card gambling task,Bechara,his patients,a validating test,we,our artificial agent,this test,100 trials,The results,this experiment,the demonstrated efficiency,the implemented somatic marker mechanism,the potential impact,this system,the field,social robotics,
The central problems that goal-directed animals must solve are: What do I need and Why, Where and When can this be obtained, and How do I get it? or the H4W problem. Here, we elucidate the principles underlying the neuronal solutions to H4W using a combination of neurobiological and neurorobotic approaches. First, we analyse H4W from a system-level perspective by mapping its objectives onto the Distributed Adaptive Control embodied cognitive architecture which sees the generation of adaptive action in the real world as the primary task of the brain rather than optimally solving abstract problems. We next map this functional decomposition to the architecture of the rodent brain to test its consistency. Following this approach, we propose that the mammalian brain solves the H4W problem on the basis of multiple kinds of outcome predictions, integrating central representations of needs and drives (e.g. hypothalamus), valence (e.g. amygdala), world, self and task state spaces (e.g. neocortex, hippocampus and prefrontal cortex, respectively) combined with multi-modal selection (e.g. basal ganglia). In our analysis, goal-directed behaviour results from a well-structured architecture in which goals are bootstrapped on the basis of predefined needs, valence and multiple learning, memory and planning mechanisms rather than being generated by a singular computation."
The central problems,goal-directed animals,What,I,I,it,we,the principles,the neuronal solutions,H4W,a combination,neurobiological and neurorobotic approaches,we,H4W,a system-level perspective,its objectives,the Distributed Adaptive Control,cognitive architecture,the generation,adaptive action,the real world,the primary task,the brain,abstract problems,We,this functional decomposition,the architecture,the rodent brain,its consistency,this approach,we,the mammalian brain,the H4W problem,the basis,multiple kinds,outcome predictions,central representations,needs,drives,valence (e.g. amygdala), world, self and task state spaces,multi-modal selection,our analysis,In our analysis, goal-directed behaviour results,a well-structured architecture,goals,the basis,predefined needs,valence,multiple learning,memory,planning,mechanisms,a singular computation,
In the attempt to build adaptive and intelligent machines, roboticists have looked at neuroscience for more than half a century as a source of inspiration for perception and control. More recently, neuroscientists have resorted to robots for testing hypotheses and validating models of biological nervous systems. Here, we give an overview of the work at the intersection of robotics and neuroscience and highlight the most promising approaches and areas where interactions between the two fields have generated significant new insights. We articulate the work in three sections, invertebrate, vertebrate and primate neuroscience. We argue that robots generate valuable insight into the function of nervous systems, which is intimately linked to behaviour and embodiment, and that brain-inspired algorithms and devices give robots life-like capabilities.
the attempt,adaptive and intelligent machines,roboticists,neuroscience,more than half a century,a source,inspiration,perception,control,neuroscientists,robots,hypotheses,models,biological nervous systems,we,an overview,the work,the intersection,robotics,neuroscience,the most promising approaches,areas,interactions,the two fields,significant new insights,We,the work,three sections,invertebrate,vertebrate,primate neuroscience,We,robots,valuable insight,the function,nervous systems,embodiment,brain-inspired algorithms,devices,life-like capabilities,
In this article, we present a neurologically motivated computational architecture for visual information processing. The computational architectures focus lies in multiple strategies: hierarchical processing, parallel and concurrent processing, and modularity. The architecture is modular and expandable in both hardware and software, so that it can also cope with multisensory integrations - making it an ideal tool for validating and applying computational neuroscience models in real time under real-world conditions. We apply our architecture in real time to validate a long-standing biologically inspired visual object recognition model, HMAX. In this context, the overall aim is to supply a humanoid robot with the ability to perceive and understand its environment with a focus on the active aspect of real-time spatiotemporal visual processing. We show that our approach is capable of simulating information processing in the visual cortex in real time and that our entropy-adaptive modification of HMAX has a higher efficiency and classification performance than the standard model (up to similar to+6 %)."
this article,we,a neurologically motivated computational architecture,visual information processing,The computational architectures,lies,multiple strategies,The architecture,both hardware,software,it,multisensory integrations,it,computational neuroscience models,real time,real-world conditions,We,our architecture,real time,a long-standing biologically inspired visual object recognition model,this context,the overall aim,a humanoid robot,the ability,its environment,a focus,the active aspect,real-time spatiotemporal visual processing,We,our approach,information processing,the visual cortex,real time,our entropy-adaptive modification,HMAX,a higher efficiency,classification performance,the standard model,similar to+6 %,
This paper presents a brain inspired neural architecture with spatial cognition and navigation capability. The brain inspired system is mainly composed of two parts: a bio-inspired hierarchical vision architecture (HMAX) and a hippocampal-like circuitry. The HMAX encodes vision inputs as neural activities and maps to hippocampal-like circuitry which stores this information. Sensing a similar neural activity pattern this information can be recalled. The system is tested on a mobile robot which is placed in a spatial memory task. Among the regions in hippocampus, CA1 has place dependance response. With this property, the hippocampal-like circuitry stores the goal location according to the vision pattern, and recalls it when a similar vision pattern is seen again. The place dependent pattern of CA1 guides the motor neuronal area which then dictates the robot move to the goal location. The result of our current study indicates a possible way of connection between hippocampus and vision system, which will help robots perform a rodent-like behavior in the end. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This paper,a brain,neural architecture,spatial cognition,navigation capability,The brain inspired system,two parts,vision inputs,neural activities,maps,hippocampal-like circuitry,this information,a similar neural activity pattern,this information,The system,a mobile robot,a spatial memory task,the regions,hippocampus,CA1,place,dependance response,this property,the hippocampal-like circuitry stores,the goal location,the vision pattern,it,a similar vision pattern,The place,The place dependent pattern,CA1,the motor neuronal area,the robot move,the goal location,The result,our current study,a possible way,connection,hippocampus,vision system,robots,a rodent-like behavior,the end,All rights,
This paper presents a novel developmental learning approach for hand-eye coordination in an autonomous robotic system. Robotic hand-eye coordination plays an important role in dealing with real-time environments. Under the approach, infant developmental patterns are introduced to build our robots learning system. The method works by first constructing a brain-like computational structure to control the robot, and then by using infant behavioural patterns to build a hand-eye coordination learning algorithm. This work is supported by an experimental evaluation, which shows that the control system is implemented simply, and that the learning approach provides fast and incremental learning of behavioural competence."
This paper,a novel developmental learning approach,hand-eye coordination,an autonomous robotic system,Robotic hand-eye coordination,an important role,real-time environments,the approach,infant developmental patterns,our robots,learning system,The method,a brain-like computational structure,the robot,infant behavioural patterns,a hand-eye coordination learning algorithm,This work,an experimental evaluation,the control system,the learning approach,fast and incremental learning,behavioural competence,
Building an integrated mobile robot that can navigate freely and deliberately in an indoor environment is a challenging task. In this paper, we propose a direction-driven navigation system, in which a mobile robot is instructed to follow the given directions instead of a global path. This is similar to humans when travelling to a target destination by following the directional guidance from someone else. This system consists of two main modules including a grid-based direction planner and a multilayered asymmetrical local navigation module. The directions of movement are computed from a brain-inspired spatial cognitive map using the grid-based direction planner, while the motion of the robot is controlled by the local navigation module. In order to improve the mapping performance using RGB-D input, an improved template comparison method is suggested. The proposed system is implemented in a mobile robot that performs simultaneous localization, mapping, and navigation in a typical office environment. The experimental results indicate that the robot can efficiently navigate to target destinations.
an integrated mobile robot,an indoor environment,a challenging task,this paper,we,a direction-driven navigation system,a mobile robot,the given directions,a global path,humans,a target destination,the directional guidance,someone,This system,two main modules,a grid-based direction planner,a multilayered asymmetrical local navigation module,The directions,movement,a brain-inspired spatial cognitive map,the grid-based direction planner,the motion,the robot,the local navigation module,order,the mapping performance,RGB-D input,an improved template comparison method,The proposed system,a mobile robot,simultaneous localization,mapping,navigation,a typical office environment,The experimental results,the robot,destinations,
A Layered Hidden Markov Model (LHMM) has been usually used for recognizing various human activities. In such a LHMM, the performance tends to be improved than that of a single layered HMM. To further enhance the performance of such a LHMM, in this paper, we propose a brain-inspired feedback mechanism. For this achievement, the LHMM is first modeled using a set of training data that the semantic information (i.e., labels of data) is attached. In the inference phase, the semantic information is produced from the HMMs associated with the upper layers of the LHMM, and then the semantic information is used to improve the performances of the lower layers in the next inference step. Consequently, these interactive feed-forward and feedback information can dramatically improve the performance of the LHMM. To validate our proposed method, we compare the performance of our LHMM (i.e., with feedback mechanism) with that of a standard LHMM (i.e., with no feedback mechanism) using twenty-four human activities, which occur frequently when a human cooks.
A Layered Hidden Markov Model,various human activities,such a LHMM,the performance,a single layered,the performance,such a LHMM,this paper,we,a brain-inspired feedback mechanism,this achievement,the LHMM,a set,training data,the semantic information,data,the inference phase,the semantic information,the HMMs,the upper layers,the LHMM,the semantic information,the performances,the lower layers,the next inference step,these interactive feed-forward and feedback information,the performance,the LHMM.,our proposed method,we,the performance,our LHMM,feedback mechanism,a standard LHMM,no feedback mechanism,twenty-four human activities,
This paper introduces a new approach to learning pointing behavior in a developmental robot by using a type of constructive neural network and Q-learning algorithm, taking inspirations from human infant development. The pointing behavior is considered as the first movement that human infants use to communicate with other person during human development, it is also the foundation of the human social interaction abilities. We rebuilt this developmental course in our robot simulation system. The learning algorithm of the pointing is implemented by Q-Learning, and a radial based function neural network with resource allocating algorithm is applied to hold the learning result and to control robot movements. The experimental results show that the approach is able to lead our development robot to generate pointing behavior.
This paper,a new approach,pointing behavior,a developmental robot,a type,constructive neural network,Q-learning algorithm,inspirations,human infant development,The pointing behavior,the first movement,human infants,other person,human development,it,the foundation,the human social interaction abilities,We,this developmental course,our robot simulation system,The learning algorithm,the pointing,Q-Learning,a radial based function neural network,resource,resource allocating algorithm,the learning result,robot movements,The experimental results,the approach,our development robot,behavior,
Spike-based motor control is very important in the field of robotics and also for the neuromorphic engineering community to bridge the gap between sensing / processing devices and motor control without losing the spike philosophy that enhances speed response and reduces power consumption. This paper shows an accurate neuro-inspired spike-based system composed of a DVS retina, a visual processing system that detects and tracks objects, and a SVITE motor control, where everything follows the spike-based philosophy. The control system is a spike version of the neuroinspired open loop VITE control algorithm implemented in a couple of FPGA boards: the first one runs the algorithm and the second one drives the motors with spikes. The robotic platform is a low cost arm with four degrees of freedom.
Spike-based motor control,the field,robotics,the neuromorphic engineering community,the gap,/ processing devices,motor control,the spike philosophy,speed response,power consumption,This paper,an accurate neuro-inspired spike-based system,a DVS retina,objects,everything,the spike-based philosophy,The control system,a spike version,the neuroinspired open loop VITE control algorithm,a couple,FPGA boards,the first one,the algorithm,the second one,the motors,spikes,The robotic platform,a low cost arm,four degrees,freedom,
Cerebrovascular accident or stroke is one of the major brain impairments that affects numerous people globally. After a unilateral stroke, sensory motor damages contralateral to the brain lesion occur in many patients. As a result, gait remains impaired and asymmetric. This paper describes and simulates a novel closed loop algorithm designed for the control of a lower limb exoskeleton for post-stroke rehabilitation. The algorithm has been developed to control a lower limb exoskeleton including actuators for the hip and knee joints, and feedback sensors for the measure of joint angular excursions. It has been designed to control and correct the gait cycle of the affected leg using kinematics information from the unaffected one. In particular, a probabilistic particle filter like algorithm has been used at the top-level control to modulate gait velocity and the joint angular excursions. Simulation results show that the algorithm is able to correct and control velocity of the affected side restoring phase synchronization between the legs.
Cerebrovascular accident,stroke,the major brain impairments,numerous people,a unilateral stroke,sensory motor damages,the brain lesion,many patients,a result,gait,This paper,a novel,a novel closed loop algorithm,the control,a lower limb exoskeleton,post-stroke rehabilitation,The algorithm,a lower limb exoskeleton,actuators,the hip and knee joints,feedback sensors,the measure,joint angular excursions,It,the gait cycle,the affected leg,kinematics information,the unaffected one,a probabilistic particle filter,algorithm,the top-level control,gait velocity,the joint angular excursions,Simulation results,the algorithm,velocity,the affected side,phase synchronization,the legs,
Living organisms are capable of autonomously adapting to dynamically changing environments by receiving inputs from highly specialized sensory organs and elaborating them on the same parallel, power-efficient neural substrate. In this paper we present a prototype for a comprehensive integrated platform that allows replicating principles of neural information processing in real-time. Our system consists of (a) an autonomous mobile robotic platform, (b) on-board actuators and multiple (neuromorphic) sensors, and (c) the SpiNNaker computing system, a configurable neural architecture for exploration of parallel, brain-inspired models. The simulation of neurally inspired perception and reasoning algorithms is performed in real-time by distributed, low-power, low-latency event-driven computing nodes, which can be flexibly configured using C or specialized neural languages such as PyNN and Nengo. We conclude by demonstrating the platform in two experimental scenarios, exhibiting real-world closed loop behavior consisting of environmental perception, reasoning and execution of adequate motor actions.
Living organisms,environments,inputs,highly specialized sensory organs,them,the same parallel, power-efficient neural substrate,this paper,we,a prototype,a comprehensive integrated platform,principles,real-time,Our system,(a) an autonomous mobile robotic platform,board,exploration,parallel, brain-inspired models,The simulation,neurally inspired perception,reasoning algorithms,real-time,distributed, low-power,low-latency event-driven computing nodes,C,PyNN,We,the platform,two experimental scenarios,real-world,real-world closed loop behavior,environmental perception,reasoning,execution,adequate motor actions,
In this work we describe how an existing neural model for learning Cell Assemblies (CAs) across multiple neuroanatomical brain areas has been integrated with a humanoid robot simulation to explore the learning of associations of visual and motor modalities. The results show that robust CAs are learned to enable pattern completion to select a correct motor response when only visual input is presented. We also show, with some parameter tuning and the pre-processing of more realistic patterns taken from images of real objects and robot poses the network can act as a controller for the robot in visuo-motor association tasks. This provides the basis for further neurorobotic experiments on grounded language learning.
this work,we,an existing neural model,Cell Assemblies,multiple neuroanatomical brain areas,a humanoid robot simulation,the learning,associations,visual and motor modalities,The results,robust CAs,pattern completion,a correct motor response,only visual input,We,some parameter tuning,the pre-processing,more realistic patterns,images,real objects,robot,the network,a controller,the robot,visuo-motor association tasks,the basis,further neurorobotic experiments,grounded language learning,


Our research has been focused on developing human-robot interactions, The robot need to perform a high level of intellectual activity and user compatibility. Therefore, we considered the primary structure of a conscious human/animal action, which can be represented by the sequence process, Perception. Motivation. Action. We have improved a hierarchical structure model, which defines the relationship between the consciousness field and the behavior module. This model is called Consciousness-Based Architecture (CBA). Furthermore, the robot should select the action itself, we have investigated the application of brain-inspired technology so we introduced a Self Organizing Map (SOM) neural network that is trained using unsupervised learning to classify its behavior according to the motivation value in the CBA module. In this paper, we attempt to describe the integration of a Self Organizing Map (SOM) method into CBA module in order to classify and select autonomous behavior. We confirmed the effectiveness of the proposed system by the experimental results.
Our research,human-robot interactions,The robot,a high level,intellectual activity,user compatibility,we,the primary structure,a conscious human/animal action,the sequence process,We,a hierarchical structure model,the relationship,the consciousness field,the behavior module,This model,the robot,the action,we,the application,brain-inspired technology,we,a Self Organizing Map (SOM) neural network,unsupervised learning,its behavior,the motivation value,the CBA module,this paper,we,the integration,a Self Organizing Map,method,CBA module,order,autonomous behavior,We,the effectiveness,the proposed system,the experimental results,
The Human Brain Project, one of two European flagship projects, is a collaborative effort to reconstruct the brain, piece by piece, in multi-scale models and their supercomputer-based simulation, integrating and federating giant amounts of existing information and creating new information and knowledge about the human brain. A fundamental impact on our understanding of the human brain and its diseases as well as on novel brain-inspired computing technologies is expected. The HPC Platform will be one of the central elements of the project. Including major European supercomputing centres and several universities, its mission is to build, integrate and operate the hardware, network and software components of the supercomputing and big data infrastructures from the cell to full-scale interactive brain simulations, with data management, processing and visualization. In my contribution, I will discuss the requirements of the HBP on HPC hardware and software technology. These requirements follow the multi-scale approach of the HBP to decode the brain and recreate it virtually. On the cellular level, hardware-software architectures for quantum mechanical ab-initio molecular dynamics methods and for classical molecular dynamics methods will be included in the platform. On the level of the full-scale brain simulation, on the one hand, a development system to "build" the brain by integration of all accessible data distributed worldwide as well as for tests and evaluation of the brain software is foreseen, and, on the other hand, a system that acts as the central brain simulation facility, eventually allowing for interactive simulation and visualization of the entire human brain. Additionally, the brain needs to be equipped with the proper sensory environment, a body, provided by virtual robotics codes developed on a suitable hardware system. It is expected that the human brain project can trigger innovative solutions for future exascale architectures permitting hierarchical memory structures and interactive operation.
The Human Brain Project,two European flagship projects,a collaborative effort,the brain,piece,piece,multi-scale models,their supercomputer-based simulation,giant amounts,existing information,new information,knowledge,the human brain,A fundamental impact,our understanding,the human brain,its diseases,novel brain-inspired computing technologies,The HPC Platform,the central elements,the project,major European supercomputing centres,several universities,its mission,the hardware,network,software,components,the supercomputing and big data infrastructures,the cell,full-scale interactive brain simulations,data management,processing,visualization,my contribution,I,the requirements,the HBP,HPC hardware,software technology,These requirements,the multi-scale approach,the HBP,the brain,it,the cellular level,hardware-software architectures,quantum mechanical ab-initio molecular dynamics methods,classical molecular dynamics methods,the platform,the level,the full-scale brain simulation,the one hand,On the level of the full-scale brain simulation, on the one hand, a development system,the brain,integration,all accessible data,tests,evaluation,the brain software,the other hand,the central brain simulation facility,interactive simulation,visualization,the entire human brain,the brain,the proper sensory environment,virtual robotics codes,a suitable hardware system,It,the human brain project,innovative solutions,future exascale architectures,hierarchical memory structures,interactive operation,
Information processes in the brain, such as gene and protein expression, learning, memory, perception, cognition, consciousness are all spatio- and/or spectro temporal. Modelling such processes would require sophisticated information science methods and the best ones could be the brain-inspired ones, that use the same brain information processing principles. Spatio and spectro-temporal data (SSTD) are also the most common types of data collected in many domain areas, including engineering, bioinformatics, neuroinformatics, ecology, environment, medicine, economics, etc. However, there is lack of methods for the efficient analysis of such data and for spatio-temporal pattern recognition (STPR). The brain functions as a spatio-temporal information processing machine and deals extremely well with spatio-temporal data. Its organization and functions have been the inspiration for the development of new methods for SSTD analysis and STPR. Brain-inspired spiking neural networks (SNN) are considered the third generation of neural networks and are a promising paradigm for the creation of new intelligent ICT for SSTD. This new generation of computational models and systems is potentially capable of modeling complex information processes due to the ability to represent and integrate different information dimensions, such as time, space, frequency, and phase, and to deal with large volumes of data in an adaptive and self-organizing manner. This chapter reviews methods and systems of SNN for SSTD analysis and STPR, including single neuronal models, evolving spiking neural networks (eSNN), and computational neurogenetic models (CNGM). Software and hardware implementations and some pilot applications for audio-visual pattern recognition, EEG data-analysis, cognitive robotic systems, BCI, neurodegenerative diseases, and others are discussed.
Information processes,the brain,gene,protein expression,learning,memory,perception,cognition,consciousness,such processes,sophisticated information science methods,the best ones,the brain-inspired ones,the same brain information processing principles,Spatio and spectro-temporal data,the most common types,data,many domain areas,engineering,bioinformatics,neuroinformatics,ecology,environment,medicine,economics,lack,methods,the efficient analysis,such data,spatio-temporal pattern recognition,a spatio-temporal information processing machine,deals,spatio-temporal data,Its organization,functions,the inspiration,the development,new methods,SSTD analysis,neural networks,neural networks,a promising paradigm,the creation,new intelligent ICT,SSTD.,This new generation,computational models,systems,complex information processes,the ability,different information dimensions,time,space,frequency,phase,large volumes,data,an adaptive and self-organizing manner,This chapter,methods,systems,SNN,SSTD analysis,single neuronal models,neural networks,Software and hardware implementations,some pilot applications,audio-visual pattern recognition,EEG data-analysis,cognitive robotic systems,neurodegenerative diseases,others,
This chapter aims to provide an overview of what is happening in the field of brain like robotics, what the main issues are and how they are being addressed by different authors. It starts by introducing several concepts and theories on the evolution and operation of the brain and provides a basic biological and operational framework as background to contextualize the topic. Building on these foundations, the main body of the chapter is devoted to the different contributions within the robotics community that use brain-like models as a source of inspiration for controlling real robots. These contributions are addressed from two perspectives. On one hand the main cognitive architectures developed under a more or less strict brain-like point of view are presented, offering a brief description of each architecture as well as highlighting some of their main contributions. Then the point of view is changed and a more extensive review is provided of what is being done within three areas that we consider key for the future development of autonomous brain-like robotic creatures that can live and work in human environments interacting with other robots and human beings. These are: Memory, Attention and Emotions. This review is followed by a description of some of the current projects that are being carried out or have recently finished within this field as well as of some robotic platforms that are currently being used. The chapter is heavily referenced in the hope that this extensive compilation of papers and books from the different areas that are relevant within the field are useful for the reader to really appreciate its breadth and beauty.
This chapter,an overview,what,the field,brain,robotics,what,the main issues,they,different authors,It,several concepts,theories,the evolution,operation,the brain,a basic biological and operational framework,background,the topic,these foundations,the main body,the chapter,the different contributions,the robotics community,brain-like models,a source,inspiration,real robots,These contributions,two perspectives,one hand,the main cognitive architectures,a more or less strict brain-like point,view,a brief description,each architecture,their main contributions,the point,view,a more extensive review,what,three areas,we,the future development,autonomous brain-like robotic creatures,human environments,other robots,human beings,Memory,Attention,Emotions,This review,a description,the current projects,this field,some robotic platforms,The chapter,the hope,this extensive compilation,papers,books,the different areas,the field,the reader,its breadth,beauty,
We present a neurorobotic model that develops reaching and grasping skills analogous to those displayed by infants during their early developmental stages. The learning process is realized in an incremental manner, taking into account the reflex behaviors initially possessed by infants and the neurophysiological and cognitive maturation occurring during the relevant developmental period. The behavioral skills acquired by the robots closely match those displayed by children. The comparison between incremental and nonincremental experiments demonstrates how some of the limitations characterizing the initial developmental phase channel the learning process toward better solutions.
We,a neurorobotic model,skills,infants,their early developmental stages,The learning process,an incremental manner,account,the reflex behaviors,infants,the neurophysiological and cognitive maturation,the relevant developmental period,The behavioral skills,the robots,children,The comparison,incremental and nonincremental experiments,the limitations,the initial developmental phase channel,the learning process,better solutions,
In this paper we present a complete spike-based architecture: from a Dynamic Vision Sensor (retina) to a stereo head robotic platform. The aim of this research is to reproduce intended movements performed by humans taking into account as many features as possible from the biological point of view. This paper fills the gap between current spike silicon sensors and robotic actuators by applying a spike processing strategy to the data flows in real time. The architecture is divided into layers: the retina, visual information processing, the trajectory generator layer which uses a neuroinspired algorithm (SVITE) that can be replicated into as many times as DoF the robot has; and finally the actuation layer to supply the spikes to the robot (using PFM). All the layers do their tasks in a spike-processing mode, and they communicate each other through the neuro-inspired AER protocol. The open-loop controller is implemented on FPGA using AER interfaces developed by RTC Lab. Experimental results reveal the viability of this spike-based controller. Two main advantages are: low hardware resources (2% of a Xilinx Spartan 6) and power requirements (3.4 W) to control a robot with a high number of DoF (up to 100 for a Xilinx Spartan 6). It also evidences the suitable use of AER as a communication protocol between processing and actuation.
this paper,we,a complete spike-based architecture,a Dynamic Vision Sensor,a stereo head robotic platform,The aim,this research,intended movements,humans,account,many features,the biological point,view,This paper,the gap,current spike silicon sensors,robotic actuators,a spike processing strategy,the data,real time,The architecture,layers,the retina,visual information processing,a neuroinspired algorithm,as many times,DoF,the robot,the spikes,the robot,PFM,All the layers,their tasks,a spike-processing mode,they,the neuro-inspired AER protocol,The open-loop controller,FPGA,AER interfaces,RTC Lab,Experimental results,the viability,this spike-based controller,Two main advantages,low hardware resources,a Xilinx Spartan,a robot,a high number,DoF,a Xilinx Spartan,It,the suitable use,AER,a communication protocol,processing,actuation,
Although significant progress has been made in the development of robots with serpentine properties, the issues of motion control and adaptation to environmental constraints still require substantial research. This is particularly true for search and rescue applications, where reliable operation in extremely difficult terrain is essential. This paper presents a novel robot design based on the mechanics and neural control of locomotion in Caenorhabditis elegans, a tiny nematode worm. Equipped with an extremely simple yet powerful neurally-inspired decentralized control system, the robot presented here is capable of effective serpentine locomotion. More importantly, it exhibits sensorless path finding, in which obstacles in the environment are overcome, based purely on proprioceptive feedback encoding body shape. Indeed, the robot lacks any form of external sensory capability. The design and implementation of the prototype robot and its control strategy are discussed. In order to validate the control strategy for path finding, experiments and analyses have been performed. The results show that the robot can find its path successfully in the majority of cases. The current limitations have also been discussed.
significant progress,the development,robots,serpentine properties,the issues,motion control,adaptation,environmental constraints,substantial research,search and rescue applications,reliable operation,extremely difficult terrain,This paper,a novel robot design,the mechanics,neural control,locomotion,Caenorhabditis elegans,an extremely simple yet powerful neurally-inspired decentralized control system,the robot,effective serpentine locomotion,it,sensorless path,obstacles,the environment,proprioceptive feedback,the robot,any form,external sensory capability,The design,implementation,the prototype robot,its control strategy,order,the control strategy,path finding,experiments,analyses,The results,the robot,its path,the majority,cases,The current limitations,
We present cedar, a software framework for the implementation and simulation of embodied cognitive models based on Dynamic Field Theory (DFT). DFT is a neurally inspired theoretical framework that integrates perception, action, and cognition. cedar captures the power of DFT in software by facilitating the process of software development for embodied cognitive systems, both artificial and as models of human cognition. In cedar, models can be designed through a graphical interface and interactively tuned. We demonstrate this by implementing an exemplary robotic architecture.
We,cedar,a software framework,the implementation,simulation,embodied cognitive models,Dynamic Field Theory,DFT,a neurally inspired theoretical framework,perception,action,cognition,cedar,the power,DFT,software,the process,software development,embodied cognitive systems,models,human cognition,cedar,models,a graphical interface,We,an exemplary robotic architecture,
Current state of the art robot mapping and navigation systems produce impressive performance under a narrow range of robot platform, sensor and environmental conditions, in contrast to animals such as rats that produce "good enough" maps that enable them to function under an incredible range of situations. In this paper we present a rat-inspired featureless sensor-fusion system that assesses the usefulness of multiple sensor modalities based on their utility and coherence for place recognition, without knowledge as to the type of sensor. We demonstrate the system on a Pioneer robot in indoor and outdoor environments with abrupt lighting changes. Through dynamic weighting of the sensors, the system is able to perform correct place recognition and mapping where the static sensor weighting approach fails.
Current state,the art robot mapping,navigation systems,impressive performance,a narrow range,robot platform,sensor,environmental conditions,contrast,animals,rats,"good enough" maps,them,an incredible range,situations,this paper,we,a rat-inspired featureless sensor-fusion system,the usefulness,multiple sensor modalities,their utility,coherence,place recognition,knowledge,the type,sensor,We,the system,a Pioneer robot,indoor and outdoor environments,abrupt lighting changes,dynamic weighting,the sensors,the system,correct place recognition,mapping,the static sensor weighting approach,
Many neurorobotic experiments require central pattern generators (CPGs) and motion primitives for the target robot, which have to be given prior to an experiment as building blocks. The creation of artificial neural networks, that produce the desired motions, is a tedious and time-consuming task. Also, rapidly varying motion patterns to test alternative motions is difficult due to the rigid nature of the usually hard-wired networks. To overcome this problem, a novel network architecture is introduced that allows to capture motions directly from demonstrated movements on the robot hardware. The demonstrated motion patterns are stored in the activation dynamics of the network, instead of in the synaptic weights. This allows the rapid creation and modification of neural CPGs for various - even complex - motions directly on the robot. With a simple adaptation method, the activation dynamics representing the captured motions can also be used to determine synaptic weights to create fixed, reusable neural building blocks. The applicability of the proposed neural network architecture is demonstrated by generating two arm motions for a humanoid robot by demonstration. The successful applications show that the neural motion capturing approach is a useful method to generate CPGs for neurorobotic experiments.
Many neurorobotic experiments,central pattern generators,motion primitives,the target robot,an experiment,blocks,The creation,artificial neural networks,the desired motions,a tedious and time-consuming task,rapidly varying motion patterns,alternative motions,the rigid nature,the usually hard-wired networks,this problem,a novel network architecture,motions,demonstrated movements,the robot hardware,The demonstrated motion patterns,the activation dynamics,the network,the synaptic weights,the rapid creation,modification,neural CPGs,various - even complex - motions,the robot,a simple adaptation method,the activation dynamics,the captured motions,synaptic weights,fixed, reusable neural building blocks,The applicability,the proposed neural network architecture,two arm motions,a humanoid robot,demonstration,The successful applications,the neural motion,approach,a useful method,CPGs,neurorobotic experiments,
Dynamic motion of hobby-use humanoid robots is defined by a sequence of static poses. Each pose is defined by specifying joint angles numerically for each joint. This is a difficult task, because typical hobby-use humanoid robots have more than 20 joints. We need a way to program robot motions easier. Our brain employs a different strategy for motion programming. Instead of specifying each joint angle or each muscle tone, the primary motor cortex has a set of primitive motions called motor primitives, and higher cortical areas and the basal ganglia generates a sequence of combinations of such motor primitives. Thus, our brain uses more abstract form to compose dynamic motions. In this article, we employ self-organizing maps (SOMs), which is an unsupervised learning algorithm used in machine learning and computational neuroscience communities, to extract motor primitives from a set of motion data of a hobby-use humanoid robot. Then, we reprogram the original dynamic motions by the sequence of combinations of extracted primitives. We are able to reproduce the same motions by the proposed method. These results suggest that our brain-inspired method provides an easier means to program hobby-use humanoid robots than existing software bundled with the robots.
Dynamic motion,hobby-use humanoid robots,a sequence,static poses,Each pose,joint angles,a difficult task,typical hobby-use humanoid robots,more than 20 joints,We,a way,robot motions,Our brain,a different strategy,motion programming,each joint angle,each muscle tone,the primary motor cortex,a set,primitive motions,higher cortical areas,the basal ganglia,a sequence,combinations,such motor primitives,brain,more abstract form,dynamic motions,this article,we,self-organizing maps,an unsupervised learning algorithm,machine learning,computational neuroscience communities,motor primitives,a set,motion data,a hobby-use humanoid robot,we,the original dynamic motions,the sequence,combinations,extracted primitives,We,the same motions,the proposed method,These results,our brain-inspired method,hobby-use humanoid robots,existing software,the robots,
Bevel-tipped flexible needles can be robotically steered to reach clinical targets along curvilinear paths in 3D. Manual needle insertion allows the clinician to control the insertion speed, ensuring patient safety. This paper presents a control law for automatic 3D steering of manually inserted flexible needles, enabling path-following control. A look-ahead proportional controller for position and orientation is presented. The look-ahead distance is a linear function of insertion speed. Simulations in a 3D brain-like environment demonstrate the performance of the proposed controller. Experimental results also show the feasibility of this technique in 2D and 3D environments.
Bevel-tipped flexible needles,clinical targets,curvilinear paths,3D. Manual needle insertion,the clinician,the insertion speed,patient safety,This paper,a control law,automatic 3D steering,flexible needles,path-following control,A look-ahead proportional controller,position,orientation,The look-ahead distance,a linear function,insertion speed,Simulations,a 3D brain-like environment,the performance,the proposed controller,Experimental results,the feasibility,this technique,2D,environments,
This paper describes a cognitive map building and navigation system using an RGB-D sensor for mobile robots. A brain-inspired simultaneously localization and mapping (SLAM) system, that requires raw odometry data and RGB-D information, is used to construct a spatial cognitive map of an office environment. The cognitive map contains a set of spatial coordinates that the robot has traveled. A global path is extracted from the built cognitive map and subsequently used by a local planner to instruct the robot to navigate. The global path is a subset of the path that builds up the cognitive map. This is different from other path planning mechanisms that construct a path based on a ground-truth map. Experiment results show that the employment of the RGB-D sensor significantly improves the mapping results.
This paper,a cognitive map building and navigation system,an RGB-D sensor,mobile robots,A brain-inspired simultaneously localization,mapping (SLAM) system,raw odometry data,RGB-D information,a spatial cognitive map,an office environment,The cognitive map,a set,the robot,A global path,the built cognitive map,a local planner,the robot,The global path,a subset,the path,the cognitive map,other path planning mechanisms,a path,a ground-truth map,Experiment results,the employment,the RGB-D sensor,the mapping results,
Insects show a rich repertoire of goal-directed and adaptive behaviors that are still beyond the capabilities of todays artificial systems. Fast progress in our comprehension of the underlying neural computations make the insect a favorable model system for neurally inspired computing paradigms in autonomous robots. Here, we present a robotic platform designed for implementing and testing spiking neural network control architectures. We demonstrate a neuromorphic real-time approach to sensory processing, reward-based associative plasticity and behavioral control. This is inspired by the biological mechanisms underlying rapid associative learning and the formation of distributed memories in the insect."
Insects,a rich repertoire,goal-directed and adaptive behaviors,the capabilities,todays artificial systems,Fast progress,our comprehension,the underlying neural computations,the insect,neurally inspired computing paradigms,autonomous robots,we,a robotic platform,neural network control architectures,We,a neuromorphic real-time approach,sensory processing,reward-based associative plasticity,behavioral control,the biological mechanisms,rapid associative learning,the formation,distributed memories,the insect,
In many animal species it is essential to recognize approach predators from complex, dynamic visual scenes and timely initiate escape behavior. Such sophisticated behaviours are often achieved with low neuronal complexity, such as in locusts, suggesting that emulating these biological models in artificial systems would enable the generation of similar complex behaviours with low computational overhead. On the other hand, artificial collision detection is a complex task that requires both real time data acquisition and important features extraction from a captured image. In order to accomplish this task, the algorithms used need to be fast to process the captured data and then perform real time decisions. Taking into account the previous considerations, neurorobotic models may provide a foundation for the development of more effective and autonomous devices/robots, based on an improved understanding of the biological basis of adaptive behavior. In this paper, we make a comparative analysis between the new computational model of a locust looming-detecting pathway and the model previously proposed by us. The obtained results proved the improvement provided by the pixel remapping in the model performance.
many animal species,it,approach predators,complex, dynamic visual scenes,timely initiate escape behavior,Such sophisticated behaviours,low neuronal complexity,locusts,these biological models,artificial systems,the generation,similar complex behaviours,low computational overhead,the other hand,artificial collision detection,a complex task,both real time data acquisition,important features extraction,a captured image,order,this task,the algorithms,need,the captured data,real time decisions,account,the previous considerations,neurorobotic models,a foundation,the development,more effective and autonomous devices/robots,an improved understanding,the biological basis,adaptive behavior,this paper,we,a comparative analysis,the new computational model,a locust,pathway,the model,us,The obtained results,the improvement,the model performance,
This paper presents a spike-based control system applied to a fixed robotic platform. Our aim is to take a step forward to a future complete spikes processing architecture, from vision to direct motor actuation. This paper covers the processing and actuation layer over an anthropomorphic robot. In this way, the processing layer uses the neuro-inspired VITE algorithm, for reaching a target, based on PFM taking advantage of spike system information: its frequency. Thus, all the blocks of the system are based on spikes. Each layer is implemented within a FPGA board and spikes communication is codified under the AER protocol. The results show an accurate behavior of the robotic platform with 6-bit resolution for a 130 degrees range per joint, and an automatic speed control of the algorithm. Up to 96 motor controllers could be integrated in the same FPGA, allowing the positioning and object grasping by more complex anthropomorphic robots.
This paper,a spike-based control system,a fixed robotic platform,Our aim,a step,a future complete spikes,architecture,vision,direct motor actuation,This paper,the processing and actuation layer,an anthropomorphic robot,this way,the processing layer,the neuro-inspired VITE algorithm,a target,PFM,advantage,spike system information,all the blocks,the system,spikes,Each layer,a FPGA board,spikes communication,the AER protocol,The results,an accurate behavior,the robotic platform,6-bit resolution,a 130 degrees,the algorithm,96 motor controllers,the same FPGA,the positioning,object,more complex anthropomorphic robots,
This paper presents a brain inspired neural architecture with spatial cognition and navigation capability. The brain inspired system is mainly composed of two parts: a bio-inspired hierarchical vision architecture (HMAX) and a hippocampal-like circuitry. The HMAX encodes vision inputs as neural activities and maps to hippocampal-like circuitry which stores this information. Sensing a similar neural activity pattern this information can be recalled. The system is tested on a mobile robot which is placed in a spatial memory task. Among the regions in hippocampus, CA1 has place dependance response. With this property, the hippocampal-like circuitry stores the goal location according to the vision pattern, and recalls it when a similar vision pattern is seen again. The place dependent pattern of CA1 guides the motor neuronal area which then dictates the robot move to the goal location. The result of our current study indicates a possible way of connection between hippocampus and vision system, which will help robots perform a rodent-like behavior in the end.
This paper,a brain,neural architecture,spatial cognition,navigation capability,The brain inspired system,two parts,vision inputs,neural activities,maps,hippocampal-like circuitry,this information,a similar neural activity pattern,this information,The system,a mobile robot,a spatial memory task,the regions,hippocampus,CA1,place,dependance response,this property,the hippocampal-like circuitry stores,the goal location,the vision pattern,it,a similar vision pattern,The place,The place dependent pattern,CA1,the motor neuronal area,the robot move,the goal location,The result,our current study,a possible way,connection,hippocampus,vision system,robots,a rodent-like behavior,the end,
Converging evidence suggest that the medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) is involved in feedback categorization, performance monitoring, and task monitoring, and may contribute to the online regulation of reinforcement learning (RL) parameters that would affect decision-making processes in the lateral prefrontal cortex (LPFC). Previous neurophysiological experiments have shown MPFC activities encoding error likelihood, uncertainty, reward volatility, as well as neural responses categorizing different types of feedback, for instance, distinguishing between choice errors and execution errors. Rushworth and colleagues have proposed that the involvement of MPFC in tracking the volatility of the task could contribute to the regulation of one of RL parameters called the learning rate. We extend this hypothesis by proposing that MPFC could contribute to the regulation of other RL parameters such as the exploration rate and default action values in case of task shifts. Here, we analyze the sensitivity to RL parameters of behavioral performance in two monkey decision-making tasks, one with a deterministic reward schedule and the other with a stochastic one. We show that there exist optimal parameter values specific to each of these tasks, that need to be found for optimal performance and that are usually hand-tuned in computational models. In contrast, automatic online regulation of these parameters using some heuristics can help producing a good, although non-optimal, behavioral performance in each task. We finally describe our computational model of MPFC-LPFC interaction used for online regulation of the exploration rate and its application to a human-robot interaction scenario. There, unexpected uncertainties are produced by the human introducing cued task changes or by cheating. The model enables the robot to autonomously learn to reset exploration in response to such uncertain cues and events. The combined results provide concrete evidence specifying how prefrontal cortical subregions may cooperate to regulate RL parameters. It also shows how such neurophysiologically inspired mechanisms can control advanced robots in the real world. Finally, the models learning mechanisms that were challenged in the last robotic scenario provide testable predictions on the way monkeys may learn the structure of the task during the pretraining phase of the previous laboratory experiments."
Converging evidence,the medial prefrontal cortex,feedback categorization,performance monitoring,task monitoring,the online regulation,reinforcement learning,(RL) parameters,decision-making processes,the lateral prefrontal cortex,Previous neurophysiological experiments,MPFC activities,encoding error likelihood,uncertainty,volatility,neural responses,different types,feedback,instance,choice errors,execution errors,Rushworth,colleagues,the involvement,MPFC,the volatility,the task,the regulation,RL parameters,We,this hypothesis,MPFC,the regulation,other RL parameters,the exploration rate,default action values,case,task shifts,we,the sensitivity,RL parameters,behavioral performance,two monkey decision-making tasks,a deterministic reward schedule,We,optimal parameter values,these tasks,optimal performance,computational models,contrast,automatic online regulation,these parameters,some heuristics,a good, although non-optimal, behavioral performance,each task,We,our computational model,MPFC-LPFC interaction,online regulation,the exploration rate,its application,a human-robot interaction scenario,unexpected uncertainties,cued task changes,The model,the robot,exploration,response,such uncertain cues,events,The combined results,concrete evidence,prefrontal cortical subregions,RL parameters,It,such neurophysiologically inspired mechanisms,advanced robots,the real world,the models,mechanisms,the last robotic scenario,testable predictions,the way,monkeys,the structure,the task,the pretraining phase,the previous laboratory experiments,
Our research has been focused on developing human-robot interactions. We attempted to give a robotic arm has a consciousness resembling that of a human or an animal, so we have improved a hierarchical structure model, which defines the relationship between the consciousness field and the behavior module in the robotic arm. This model is called Consciousness-Based Architecture (CBA) and can be used to select the action of a robot. Indeed, the robot is programmed to select its own action by evaluating the changing situation based on its motivation value and image recognition. We have investigated the application of brain-inspired technology such as a Self Organizing Map (SOM) into the robotic arm. In this paper, we introduce a prototype function for autonomous action selection and show a classification of the robotic arms behavior using SOM combined with a CBA module."
Our research,human-robot interactions,We,a robotic arm,a consciousness,a human,an animal,we,a hierarchical structure model,the relationship,the consciousness field,the behavior module,the robotic arm,This model,the action,a robot,the robot,its own action,the changing situation,its motivation value,image recognition,We,the application,brain-inspired technology,a Self Organizing Map,the robotic arm,this paper,we,a prototype function,autonomous action selection,a classification,the robotic arms behavior,SOM,a CBA module,
Due to their relatively simple nervous system, insects are an excellent way through which we can investigate how visual information is acquired and processed in order to trigger specific behaviours, as flight stabilization, flying speed adaptation, collision avoidance responses, among others. From the behaviours previously mentioned, we are particularly interested in visually evoked collision avoidance responses. These behaviors are, by necessity, fast and robust, making them excellent systems to study the neural basis of behavior. On the other hand, artificial collision avoidance is a complex task, in which the algorithms used need to be fast to process the captured data and then perform real time decisions. Consequently, neurorobotic models may provide a foundation for the development of more effective and autonomous devices. In this paper, we will focus our attention in the Lobula Giant Movement Detector (LGMD), which is a visual neuron, located in the third layer of the locust optic lobe, that responds selectively to approaching objects, being responsible for trigger collision avoidance maneuvers in locusts. This selectivity of the LGMD neuron to approaching objects seems to result from the dynamics of the network pre-synaptic to this neuron. Tipically, this modelation is done by a conventional Difference of Gaussians (DoG) filter. In this paper, we propose the integration of a different model, an Inversed Difference of Gaussians (IDoG) filter, which preserves the different level of brightness in the captured image, enhancing the contrast at the edges. This change is expected to increase the performance of the LGMD model. Finally, a comparative analysis of both modelations, as well as its effect in the final response of the LGMD neuron, will be performed.
their relatively simple nervous system,insects,an excellent way,we,visual information,order,specific behaviours,flight stabilization,speed adaptation,collision avoidance responses,others,the behaviours,we,visually evoked collision avoidance responses,These behaviors,necessity,them,the neural basis,behavior,the other hand,artificial collision avoidance,a complex task,the algorithms,need,the captured data,real time decisions,neurorobotic models,a foundation,the development,more effective and autonomous devices,this paper,we,our attention,the Lobula Giant Movement Detector,a visual neuron,the third layer,the locust optic lobe,approaching objects,trigger collision avoidance maneuvers,locusts,This selectivity,the LGMD neuron,approaching objects,the dynamics,the network pre-synaptic,this neuron,this modelation,a conventional Difference,Gaussians,) filter,this paper,we,the integration,a different model,Gaussians,) filter,the different level,brightness,the captured image,the contrast,the edges,This change,the performance,the LGMD model,a comparative analysis,both modelations,its effect,the final response,the LGMD neuron,
Higher-order cognitive mechanisms (HOCM), such as planning, cognitive branching, switching, etc., are known to be the outcomes of a unique neural organizations and dynamics between various regions of the frontal lobe. Although some recent anatomical and neuroimaging studies have shed light on the architecture underlying the formation of such mechanisms, the neural dynamics and the pathways in and between the frontal lobe to form and/or to tune the stability level of its working memory remain controversial. A model to clarify this aspect is therefore required. In this study, we propose a simple neurocomputational model that suggests the basic concept of how HOCM, including the cognitive branching and switching in particular, may mechanistically emerge from time-based neural interactions. The proposed model is constructed such that its functional and structural hierarchy mimics, to a certain degree, the biological hierarchy that is believed to exist between local regions in the frontal lobe. Thus, the hierarchy is attained not only by the force of the layout architecture of the neural connections but also through distinct types of neurons, each with different time properties. To validate the model, cognitive branching and switching tasks were simulated in a physical humanoid robot driven by the model. Results reveal that separation between the lower and the higher-level neurons in such a model is an essential factor to form an appropriate working memory to handle cognitive branching and switching. The analyses of the obtained result also illustrates that the breadth of this separation is important to determine the characteristics of the resulting memory, either static memory or dynamic memory. This work can be considered as a joint research between synthetic and empirical studies, which can open an alternative research area for better understanding of brain mechanisms.
planning,cognitive branching,the outcomes,a unique neural organizations,dynamics,various regions,the frontal lobe,some recent anatomical and neuroimaging studies,light,the architecture,the formation,such mechanisms,the neural dynamics,the pathways,the frontal lobe,the stability level,its working memory,A model,this aspect,this study,we,a simple neurocomputational model,the basic concept,HOCM,the cognitive branching,time-based neural interactions,The proposed model,its functional and structural hierarchy,such that its functional and structural hierarchy mimics,a certain degree,local regions,the frontal lobe,the hierarchy,the force,the layout architecture,the neural connections,distinct types,neurons,different time properties,the model,cognitive branching,switching,tasks,a physical humanoid robot,the model,Results,separation,the higher-level neurons,such a model,an essential factor,an appropriate working memory,cognitive branching,switching,The analyses,the obtained result,the breadth,this separation,the characteristics,the resulting memory,This work,a joint research,synthetic and empirical studies,an alternative research area,better understanding,brain mechanisms,
Reward-based learning can easily be applied to real life with a prevalence in children teaching methods. It also allows machines and software agents to automatically determine the ideal behavior from a simple reward feedback (e.g., encouragement) to maximize their performance. Advancements in affective computing, especially emotional speech processing (ESP) have allowed for more natural interaction between humans and robots. Our research focuses on integrating a novel ESP system in a relevant virtual neurorobotic (VNR) application. We created an emotional speech classifier that successfully distinguished happy and utterances. The accuracy of the system was 95.3 and 98.7% during the offline mode (using an emotional speech database) and the live mode (using live recordings), respectively. It was then integrated in a neurorobotic scenario, where a virtual neurorobot had to learn a simple exercise through reward-based learning. If the correct decision was made the robot received a spoken reward, which in turn stimulated synapses (in our simulated model) undergoing spike-timing dependent plasticity (SIDE) and reinforced the corresponding neural pathways. Both our ESP and neurorobotic systems allowed our neurorobot to successfully and consistently learn the exercise. The integration of ESP in real-time computational neuroscience architecture is a first step toward the combination of human emotions and virtual neurorobotics.
Reward-based learning,real life,a prevalence,children,teaching methods,It,machines,software agents,the ideal behavior,a simple reward feedback,their performance,Advancements,affective computing,especially emotional speech processing,more natural interaction,humans,robots,Our research,a novel ESP system,a relevant virtual neurorobotic (VNR) application,We,an emotional speech classifier,happy and utterances,The accuracy,the system,the offline mode,an emotional speech,live recordings,It,a neurorobotic scenario,a virtual neurorobot,a simple exercise,reward-based learning,the correct decision,the robot,a spoken reward,turn,synapses,our simulated model,spike-timing,the corresponding neural pathways,Both our ESP,neurorobotic systems,our neurorobot,the exercise,The integration,ESP,computational neuroscience architecture,a first step,the combination,human emotions,virtual neurorobotics,
The vertebrate neuromodulatory systems are critical for appropriate value-laden responses to environmental challenges. Whereas changes in the overall level of dopamine (DA) have an effect on the organisms reward or curiosity-seeking behavior, changes in the level of serotonin (5 HI) can affect its level of anxiety or harm aversion. Moreover, top down signals from frontal cortex can exert cognitive control on these neuromodulatory systems. The cholinergic (ACh) and noradrenergic (NE) systems affect the ability to filter out noise and irrelevant events. We introduce a neural network for action selection that is based on these principles of neuromodulatory systems. The algorithm tested the hypothesis that high levels of serotonin lead to withdrawn behavior by suppressing DA action and that high levels of DA or low levels of 5-HT lead to curious, exploratory behavior. Furthermore, the algorithm tested the idea that top-down signals from the frontal cortex to neuromodulatory areas are critical for an organism to cope with both stressful and novel events. The neural network was implemented on an autonomous robot and tested in an open-field paradigm. The open-field test is often used to test for models anxiety or exploratory behavior in the rodent and allows for qualitative comparisons with the neurorobots behavior. The present neurorobotic experiments can lead to a better understanding of how neuromodulatory signaling affects the balance between anxious and curious behavior. Therefore, this experimental paradigm may also be informative in exploring a wide range of neurological diseases such as anxiety, autism, attention deficit disorders, and obsessive-compulsive disorders."
The vertebrate neuromodulatory systems,appropriate value-laden responses,environmental challenges,changes,the overall level,dopamine,an effect,the organisms,reward,curiosity-seeking behavior,changes,the level,serotonin,its level,anxiety,harm aversion,top down signals,frontal cortex,cognitive control,these neuromodulatory systems,The cholinergic,systems,the ability,noise,irrelevant events,We,a neural network,action selection,these principles,neuromodulatory systems,The algorithm,the hypothesis,high levels,serotonin,withdrawn behavior,DA action,DA,low levels,5-HT lead,curious, exploratory behavior,the algorithm,the idea,top-down signals,the frontal cortex,neuromodulatory areas,an organism,both stressful and novel events,The neural network,an autonomous robot,an open-field paradigm,The open-field test,models,the rodent,qualitative comparisons,the neurorobots behavior,The present neurorobotic experiments,a better understanding,signaling,the balance,anxious and curious behavior,this experimental paradigm,a wide range,neurological diseases,anxiety,autism,attention deficit disorders,obsessive-compulsive disorders,
Novel compliant actuation systems have been developed in recent years for a variety of possible advantages, such as establishing a safe human-robot interaction, increasing energy efficiency, reducing the effects of impacts and even for the development of neuro-inspired robotic platforms to be used in human motor control studies. In this rapidly growing and transversal research field, systems involving more than one active element (typically motors) for each actuated degree of freedom are being investigated to allow separate position and impedance regulations. Considering the wide range of applications and the large number of different arrangements deriving from the combination of two active elements and passive elastic components, several actuation architectures have been devised. This paper reviews state-of-the-art rotary variable impedance units incorporating two separate motors. Existing devices are grouped in three main categories. A critical and comparative analysis of the most relevant features is carried out, also based on most representative prototypes. Recently proposed methodologies and evaluation criteria for design optimization are illustrated and perspectives on potential applications of double actuation systems are presented. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Novel compliant actuation systems,recent years,a variety,possible advantages,a safe human-robot interaction,energy efficiency,the effects,impacts,the development,neuro-inspired robotic platforms,human motor control studies,this rapidly growing and transversal research field,systems,more than one active element,each actuated degree,freedom,separate position and impedance regulations,the wide range,applications,the large number,different arrangements,the combination,two active elements,passive elastic components,several actuation architectures,This paper,the-art,state-of-the-art rotary variable impedance units,two separate motors,Existing devices,three main categories,A critical and comparative analysis,the most relevant features,most representative prototypes,Recently proposed methodologies,evaluation criteria,design optimization,perspectives,potential applications,double actuation systems,All rights,
In this paper, we describe the development of a bipedal robot that models the neuromuscular architecture of human walking. The body is based on principles derived from human muscular architecture, using muscles on straps to mimic agonist/antagonist muscle action as well as bifunctional muscles. Load sensors in the straps model Golgi tendon organs. The neural architecture is a central pattern generator (CPG) composed of a half-center oscillator combined with phase-modulated reflexes that is simulated using a spiking neural network. We show that the interaction between the reflex system, body dynamics and CPG results in a walking cycle that is entrained to the dynamics of the system. We also show that the CPG helped stabilize the gait against perturbations relative to a purely reflexive system, and compared the joint trajectories to human walking data. This robot represents a complete physical, or neurorobotic, model of the system, demonstrating the usefulness of this type of robotics research for investigating the neurophysiological processes underlying walking in humans and animals."
this paper,we,the development,a bipedal robot,the neuromuscular architecture,human walking,The body,principles,human muscular architecture,muscles,straps,agonist/antagonist muscle action,bifunctional muscles,Load sensors,the straps model,tendon,organs,The neural architecture,a central pattern generator,a half-center oscillator,phase-modulated reflexes,a spiking neural network,We,the reflex system,body dynamics,a walking cycle,the dynamics,the system,We,the CPG,the gait,perturbations,a purely reflexive system,the joint trajectories,human walking data,This robot,a complete physical, or neurorobotic, model,the system,the usefulness,this type,robotics research,the neurophysiological processes,humans,animals,
This work investigates adaptive behaviours for an intelligent robotic agent when subjected to temporal stimuli consisting of associations of contextual cues and simple reflexes. This is made possible thanks to a novel learning rule based on spike-timing-dependent plasticity and embedded in an artificial spiking neural network serving as a brain-like controller. The subsequent bio-inspired cognitive system carries out different classical conditioning tasks in a controlled virtual 3D-world while the timing and frequency of unconditioned and conditioned parameters are varied. The results of this simulated robotic environment are analysed at different stages from stimuli capture to neural spike generation and show extended behavioural capabilities by the robot in the temporal domain.
This work,adaptive behaviours,an intelligent robotic agent,temporal stimuli,associations,contextual cues,simple reflexes,a novel learning rule,spike-timing-dependent plasticity,an artificial spiking neural network,a brain-like controller,The subsequent bio-inspired cognitive system,different classical conditioning tasks,a controlled virtual 3D-world,the timing,frequency,unconditioned and conditioned parameters,The results,this simulated robotic environment,different stages,stimuli,neural spike generation,extended behavioural capabilities,the robot,the temporal domain,
In the past three decades, the interest in trust has grown significantly due to its important role in our modern society. Everyday social experience involves "confidence" among people, which can be interpreted at the neurological level of a human brain. Recent studies suggest that oxytocin is a centrally-acting neurotransmitter important in the development and alteration of trust. Its administration in humans seems to increase trust and reduce fear, in part by directly inhibiting the amygdala. However, the cerebral microcircuitry underlying this mechanism is still unknown. We propose the first biologically realistic model for trust, simulating spiking neurons in the cortex in a real-time human-robot interaction simulation. At the physiological level, oxytocin cells were modeled with triple apical dendrites characteristic of their structure in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. As trust was established in the simulation, this architecture had a direct inhibitory effect on the amygdala tonic firing, which resulted in a willingness to exchange an object from the trustor (virtual neurorobot) to the trustee (human actor). Our software and hardware enhancements allowed the simulation of almost 100,000 neurons in real time and the incorporation of a sophisticated Gabor mechanism as a visual filter. Our brain was functional and our robotic system was robust in that it trusted or distrusted a human actor based on movement imitation. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
the past three decades,the interest,trust,its important role,our modern society,social experience,"confidence,people,the neurological level,a human brain,Recent studies,oxytocin,the development,alteration,trust,Its administration,humans,trust,fear,part,the amygdala,the cerebral microcircuitry,this mechanism,We,the first biologically realistic model,trust,neurons,the cortex,a real-time human-robot interaction simulation,the physiological level,oxytocin cells,triple apical dendrites,their structure,the paraventricular nucleus,the hypothalamus,trust,the simulation,this architecture,a direct inhibitory effect,the amygdala tonic firing,a willingness,an object,the trustor,the trustee,Our software,hardware enhancements,the simulation,almost 100,000 neurons,real time,the incorporation,a sophisticated Gabor mechanism,a visual filter,Our brain,our robotic system,it,a human actor,movement imitation,All rights,
Promising results on flexible and large area pressure sensors for human-neuroprostheses and human-neurobotic interface assessment are presented. Sensor arrays of 4 x 4 and 8 x 8 based on a plastic electronics concept, with a resolution of 1 and 0.25 cm(2), respectively, have been fabricated and characterized. The working pressure range is between 0 and 1 kg/cm(2) and the offset measured is around 0.03 kg/cm(2). The response time is around 1 ms. Using these sensor arrays, a sedestation-bipedestation field test by a pressure sensor integrated in a gait orthosis has been carried out in order to corroborate the medical application scenarios cerebrovascular accidents, spinal cord injuries and cerebral palsy.
results,flexible and large area pressure sensors,human-neuroprostheses,human-neurobotic interface assessment,a plastic electronics concept,a resolution,cm(2,The working pressure range,the offset,around 0.03 kg/cm(2,The response time,around 1 ms,these sensor arrays,a sedestation-bipedestation field test,a pressure sensor,a gait orthosis,order,the medical application scenarios,
We present a general and fully dynamic neural system, which exploits intrinsic chaotic dynamics, for the real-time goal-directed exploration and learning of the possible locomotion patterns of an articulated robot of an arbitrary morphology in an unknown environment. The controller is modeled as a network of neural oscillators that are initially coupled only through physical embodiment, and goal-directed exploration of coordinated motor patterns is achieved by chaotic search using adaptive bifurcation. The phase space of the indirectly coupled neural-body-environment system contains multiple transient or permanent self-organized dynamics, each of which is a candidate for a locomotion behavior. The adaptive bifurcation enables the system orbit to wander through various phase-coordinated states, using its intrinsic chaotic dynamics as a driving force, and stabilizes on to one of the states matching the given goal criteria. In order to improve the sustainability of useful transient patterns, sensory homeostasis has been introduced, which results in an increased diversity of motor outputs, thus achieving multiscale exploration. A rhythmic pattern discovered by this process is memorized and sustained by changing the wiring between initially disconnected oscillators using an adaptive synchronization method. Our results show that the novel neurorobotic system is able to create and learn multiple locomotion behaviors for a wide range of body configurations and physical environments and can readapt in realtime after sustaining damage.
We,a general and fully dynamic neural system,intrinsic chaotic dynamics,the real-time goal-directed exploration,learning,the possible locomotion patterns,an articulated robot,an arbitrary morphology,an unknown environment,The controller,a network,neural oscillators,physical embodiment,exploration,coordinated motor patterns,chaotic search,adaptive bifurcation,The phase space,the indirectly coupled neural-body-environment system,multiple transient or permanent self-organized dynamics,a candidate,a locomotion behavior,The adaptive bifurcation,the system orbit,various phase-coordinated states,its intrinsic chaotic dynamics,a driving force,the states,the given goal criteria,order,the sustainability,useful transient patterns,sensory homeostasis,an increased diversity,motor outputs,multiscale exploration,A rhythmic pattern,this process,the wiring,initially disconnected oscillators,an adaptive synchronization method,Our results,the novel neurorobotic system,multiple locomotion behaviors,a wide range,body configurations,physical environments,realtime,damage,
A biologically inspired navigation system for the mobile rat-like robot named Psikharpax is presented, allowing for self-localization and autonomous navigation in an initially unknown environment. The ability of parts of the model (e. g. the strategy selection mechanism) to reproduce rat behavioral data in various maze tasks has been validated before in simulations. But the capacity of the model to work on a real robot platform had not been tested. This paper presents our work on the implementation on the Psikharpax robot of two independent navigation strategies (a place-based planning strategy and a cue-guided taxon strategy) and a strategy selection meta-controller. We show how our robot can memorize which was the optimal strategy in each situation, by means of a reinforcement learning algorithm. Moreover, a context detector enables the controller to quickly adapt to changes in the environment-recognized as new contexts-and to restore previously acquired strategy preferences when a previously experienced context is recognized. This produces adaptivity closer to rat behavioral performance and constitutes a computational proposition of the role of the rat prefrontal cortex in strategy shifting. Moreover, such a brain-inspired meta-controller may provide an advancement for learning architectures in robotics.
A biologically inspired navigation system,the mobile rat-like robot,self-localization,autonomous navigation,an initially unknown environment,The ability,parts,the model,rat behavioral data,various maze tasks,simulations,the capacity,the model,a real robot platform,This paper,our work,the implementation,the Psikharpax robot,two independent navigation strategies,We,our robot,the optimal strategy,each situation,means,a reinforcement learning algorithm,a context detector,the controller,changes,the environment,new contexts,previously acquired strategy preferences,a previously experienced context,adaptivity,behavioral performance,a computational proposition,the role,the rat prefrontal cortex,strategy,such a brain-inspired meta-controller,an advancement,architectures,robotics,
In this paper we present a neuro-inspired spike-based close-loop controller written in VHDL and implemented for FPGAs. This controller has been focused on controlling a DC motor speed, but only using spikes for information representation, processing and DC motor driving. It could be applied to other motors with proper driver adaptation. This controller architecture represents one of the latest layers in a Spiking Neural Network (SNN), which implements a bridge between robotics actuators and spike-based processing layers and sensors. The presented control system fuses actuation and sensors information as spikes streams, processing these spikes in hard real-time, implementing a massively parallel information processing system, through specialized spike-based circuits. This spike-based close-loop controller has been implemented into an AER platform, designed in our labs, that allows direct control of DC motors: the AER-Robot. Experimental results evidence the viability of the implementation of spike-based controllers, and hardware synthesis denotes low hardware requirements that allow replicating this controller in a high number of parallel controllers working together to allow a real-time robot control.
this paper,we,a neuro-inspired spike-based close-loop controller,VHDL,FPGAs,This controller,a DC motor speed,spikes,information representation,processing,DC motor driving,It,other motors,proper driver adaptation,This controller architecture,the latest layers,a Spiking Neural Network,a bridge,robotics actuators,spike-based processing layers,sensors,information,streams,these spikes,hard real-time,a massively parallel information processing system,specialized spike-based circuits,This spike-based close-loop controller,an AER platform,our labs,direct control,DC motors,Experimental results,the viability,the implementation,spike-based controllers,hardware synthesis,low hardware requirements,this controller,a high number,parallel controllers,a real-time robot control,
The aim of this paper is to improve the skills of robotic systems in their interaction with nearby objects. The basic idea is to enhance visual estimation of objects in the world through the merging of different visual estimators of the same stimuli. A neuroscience-inspired model of stereoptic and perspective orientation estimators, merged according to different criteria, is implemented on a robotic setup and tested in different conditions. Experimental results suggest that the integration of multiple monocular and binocular cues can make robot sensory systems more reliable and versatile. The same results, compared with simulations and data from human studies, show that the model is able to reproduce some well-recognized neuropsychological effects.
The aim,this paper,the skills,robotic systems,their interaction,nearby objects,The basic idea,visual estimation,objects,the world,the merging,different visual estimators,the same stimuli,A neuroscience-inspired model,stereoptic and perspective orientation estimators,different criteria,a robotic setup,different conditions,Experimental results,the integration,multiple monocular and binocular cues,robot sensory systems,The same results,simulations,data,human studies,the model,some well-recognized neuropsychological effects,
A wide range of neuroscientific studies suggest the existence of cognitive mechanisms like attention, prediction, anticipation and strong vertical interactions between different hierarchical layers of the brain while performing complex tasks. Despite advances in both cognitive brain research and in the development of brain-inspired artificial cognitive systems, the interplay of these key ingredients of cognition remain largely elusive and unquantified in complex real-world tasks. Furthermore, it has not yet been demonstrated how a self-contained hierarchical cognitive system acting under limited resource constraints can quantifiably benefit from the incorporation of top-down and bottom-up attentional mechanisms. In this context, an open fundamental question is how a data association mechanism can integrate bottom-up sensory information and top-down knowledge. Here, building on the Distributed Adaptive Control (DAC) architecture, we propose a single framework for integrating these different components of cognition and demonstrate the frameworks performance in solving real-world and simulated robot tasks. Using the model we quantify the interactions between prediction, anticipation, attention and memory. Our results support the strength of a complete system that incorporates attention, prediction and anticipation mechanisms compared to incomplete systems for real-world and complex tasks. We unveil the relevance of transient memory that underlines the utility of the above mechanisms for intelligent knowledge management in artificial sensorimotor systems. These findings provide concrete predictions for physiological and psychophysical experiments to validate our model in biological cognitive systems. (C) 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved."
A wide range,neuroscientific studies,the existence,cognitive mechanisms,attention,prediction,anticipation,strong vertical interactions,different hierarchical layers,the brain,complex tasks,advances,both cognitive brain research,the development,brain-inspired artificial cognitive systems,the interplay,these key ingredients,cognition,complex real-world tasks,it,a self-contained hierarchical cognitive system,limited resource constraints,the incorporation,this context,an open fundamental question,a data association mechanism,bottom-up sensory information,top-down knowledge,the Distributed Adaptive Control,architecture,we,a single framework,these different components,cognition,the frameworks performance,real-world,simulated robot tasks,the model,we,the interactions,prediction,anticipation,attention,memory,Our results,the strength,a complete system,attention,prediction,anticipation,mechanisms,incomplete systems,real-world,complex tasks,We,the relevance,transient memory,the utility,the above mechanisms,intelligent knowledge management,artificial sensorimotor systems,These findings,concrete predictions,physiological and psychophysical experiments,our model,biological cognitive systems,All rights,
Robotic hand-eye coordination plays an important role in dealing with real time environment; and the learning procedure of this skill affects the fundamental framework of robotic cognition. Theories from developmental psychology have motivated the appearance of cognitive developmental robotics; however, several important features within infant developmental procedure have not been introduced into researches on developmental robotics. This paper proposes a new approach to robotic hand-eye coordination by imitating the developmental progress of human infant. The work employs a brain-like neural network system to learn hand-eye coordination. The learning procedure is driven by developmental constraints, the robot starts to learn under fully constrained conditions, when the system becomes saturated, a new constraint is assigned to the robot; the robot needs to learn this new conditions again, until the all contained conditions have been overcome. The work is supported by experimental evaluation, which shows that the new approach is able to drive the robot to own the hand-eye coordination ability autonomously, and the robot also behaves similar developmental progress with human infants."
Robotic hand-eye coordination,an important role,real time environment,the learning procedure,this skill,the fundamental framework,robotic cognition,Theories,developmental psychology,the appearance,cognitive developmental robotics,Theories from developmental psychology have motivated the appearance of cognitive developmental robotics; however, several important features,infant,developmental procedure,developmental robotics,This paper,a new approach,robotic hand-eye coordination,the developmental progress,human infant,The work,a brain-like neural network system,hand-eye coordination,The learning procedure,developmental constraints,the robot,fully constrained conditions,the system,a new constraint,the robot,the robot,this new conditions,the all contained conditions,The work,experimental evaluation,the new approach,the robot,the hand-eye coordination ability,the robot,similar developmental progress,human infants,
Robotic hand-eye coordination plays an important role in dealing with real time environment; and the learning procedure of this skill affects the fundamental framework of robotic cognition. This paper introduces a novel developmental approach to hand-eye coordination in an autonomous robotic system. Existing work employs neural network models to map visual perception to hand. In the approach, a computational structure and a cross-modal link mechanism are applied to simulate brain cortices; and a movement pattern inspired by infant behaviors is designed to help robot learn to build its hand-eye coordination. This work is supported by experimental evaluation, which shows that the learning algorithm provides a fast and incremental learning of behavioral competence.
Robotic hand-eye coordination,an important role,real time environment,the learning procedure,this skill,the fundamental framework,robotic cognition,This paper,a novel developmental approach,hand-eye coordination,an autonomous robotic system,Existing work,neural network models,visual perception,the approach,a computational structure,a cross-modal link mechanism,brain cortices,a movement pattern,infant behaviors,robot,its hand-eye coordination,This work,experimental evaluation,the learning algorithm,a fast and incremental learning,behavioral competence,
We present a neuro-inspired system for the investigation of fine dynamic haptic discrimination for neurorobotic and neuroprosthetic applications. A Braille reading task is adopted as case study. First, tactile inputs are encoded at the level of primary afferents mimicking human mechanoreceptors. Then, a network of simulated second-order neurones processes these primary signals prior to their transmission to a downstream classifier. The latter estimates the likelihood distribution of all Braille characters which is used to determine the letter being read. We also investigate how this distribution could be used to regulate the fingertip acceleration to maximise Braille-reading performances. We employ the spiking neural network paradigm to model first-and second-order neural responses, and apply an information theoretical analysis to measure the neurotransmission reliability of the spiking patterns from peripheral to more "central" areas of the system. Our results show that the firing patterns of first-and second-order responses convey enough information to achieve an offline perfect discrimination of the entire Braille alphabet as rapidly as 250 ms after the occurrence of the first spike. Furthermore, 89% of the scanned characters are correctly recognised during an online Braille reading task at constant velocity. Finally, we show that the class probability distributions obtained during reading, can be used to optimise the scanning velocity.
We,a neuro-inspired system,the investigation,fine dynamic haptic discrimination,neurorobotic and neuroprosthetic applications,A Braille reading task,case study,tactile inputs,the level,primary afferents,human mechanoreceptors,a network,simulated second-order neurones,these primary signals,their transmission,a downstream classifier,the likelihood distribution,all Braille characters,the letter,We,this distribution,the fingertip acceleration,Braille-reading performances,We,the spiking neural network paradigm,first-and second-order neural responses,an information theoretical analysis,the neurotransmission reliability,the spiking patterns,more "central" areas,the system,Our results,the firing patterns,first-and second-order responses,enough information,an offline perfect discrimination,the entire Braille alphabet,the occurrence,the first spike,89%,the scanned characters,an online Braille reading task,constant velocity,we,the class probability distributions,reading,the scanning velocity,
The grand challenge of neuromorphic computation is to develop a flexible brain-inspired architecture capable of a wide array of real-time applications, while striving towards the ultra-low power consumption and compact size of biological neural systems. Toward this end, we fabricated a building block of a modular neuromorphic architecture, a neurosynaptic core. Our implementation consists of 256 integrate-and-fire neurons and a 1,024 x 256 SRAM crossbar memory for synapses that fits in 4.2 mm(2) using a 45nm SOI process and consumes just 45pJ per spike. The core is fully configurable in terms of neuron parameters, axon types, and synapse states and its fully digital implementation achieves one-to-one correspondence with software simulation models. One-to-one correspondence allows us to introduce an abstract neural programming model for our chip, a contract guaranteeing that any application developed in software functions identically in hardware. This contract allows us to rapidly test and map applications from control, machine vision, and classification. To demonstrate, we present four test cases (i) a robot driving in a virtual environment, (ii) the classic game of pong, (iii) visual digit recognition and (iv) an autoassociative memory.
The grand challenge,neuromorphic computation,a flexible brain-inspired architecture,a wide array,real-time applications,the ultra-low power consumption,compact size,biological neural systems,this end,we,a building block,a modular neuromorphic architecture,Our implementation,256 integrate-and-fire neurons,a 1,024 x 256 SRAM crossbar memory,synapses,4.2 mm(2,a 45nm SOI process,spike,The core,terms,neuron parameters,axon types,states,its fully digital implementation,one-to-one correspondence,software simulation models,one correspondence,us,an abstract neural programming model,our chip,a contract,any application,software functions,hardware,This contract,us,applications,control,machine vision,classification,we,four test cases,a virtual environment,pong,
In this paper, we present a walking biped, based on principles of mammalian neuromuscular architecture. Walking in mammals is a fluid, dynamical interaction between a central pattern generator, the biomechanics of the body, the environment, and sensory feedback. Our robot is designed based on principles of human leg muscle architecture. We incorporate load detecting force sensors that model Golgi tendon organs in the muscles, as well as foot pressure and joint angle sensors. These sensory feedback sources model those available in the human body. The robot is controlled by a spiking neuron simulation that integrates centrally generated (CPG) with peripheral (reflexive) responses. Using recent understanding of the neurobiology of locomotion, we are able to generate an effective and stable walking pattern using interactions between the biomechanics, CPG, and reflexive responses. The CPG drives overall limb motion at the hips, while phase modulated reflexive responses adapt the pattern of the lower limb to the needs of the step cycle. Load detection by the force sensors in the limb generates propulsive stepping, and controls entrainment of the CPG through positive force feedback. These concepts are important ones for locomotion in mammals that should be considered by roboticists developing walking robots.
this paper,we,a walking biped,principles,mammalian neuromuscular architecture,mammals,a fluid, dynamical interaction,a central pattern generator,the biomechanics,the body,the environment,sensory feedback,Our robot,principles,human leg muscle architecture,We,load,force sensors,Golgi tendon organs,the muscles,These sensory feedback sources,the human body,The robot,a spiking neuron simulation,peripheral,(reflexive) responses,recent understanding,the neurobiology,locomotion,we,an effective and stable walking pattern,interactions,the biomechanics,reflexive responses,The CPG,overall limb motion,the hips,phase,modulated reflexive responses,the pattern,the lower limb,the needs,the step cycle,Load detection,the force sensors,the limb,propulsive stepping,entrainment,the CPG,positive force feedback,These concepts,important ones,locomotion,mammals,roboticists,robots,
In this paper the development of a bio-robotic platform is described. The robot design exploits biomechanical and neuroscientific knowledge on the lamprey, an eel-like swimmer well studied and characterized thanks to the reduced complexity of its anatomy. The robot is untethered, has a compliant body, muscle-like high efficiency actuators, proprioceptive sensors to detect stretch and stereoscopic vision. Experiments on the platform are reported, including robust and autonomous goal-directed swimming. Extensive experiments have been possible thanks to very high energy efficiency (around five hour continuous operating) the platform is ready to be used as investigation tool for high level motor tasks.
this paper,the development,a bio-robotic platform,The robot design,biomechanical and neuroscientific knowledge,the lamprey,the reduced complexity,its anatomy,The robot,a compliant body,muscle-like high efficiency actuators,stretch,stereoscopic vision,Experiments,the platform,robust and autonomous goal-directed swimming,Extensive experiments,very high energy efficiency,the platform,investigation tool,high level motor tasks,
Studies of decision making in animals suggest a neural mechanism of evidence accumulation for competing percepts according to Bayesian sequential analysis. This model of perception is embodied here in a biomimetic tactile sensing robot based on the rodent whisker system. We implement simultaneous perception of object shape and location using two psychological test paradigms: first, a free-response paradigm in which the agent decides when to respond, implemented with Bayesian sequential analysis; and second an interrogative paradigm in which the agent responds after a fixed interval, implemented with maximum likelihood estimation. A benefit of free-response Bayesian perception is that it allows tuning of reaction speed against accuracy. In addition, we find that large gains in decision performance are achieved with unforced responses that allow null decisions on ambiguous data. Therefore free-response Bayesian perception offers benefits for artificial systems that make them more animal-like in behavior.
Studies,decision making,animals,a neural mechanism,evidence,accumulation,competing percepts,Bayesian sequential analysis,This model,perception,a biomimetic tactile,robot,the rodent whisker system,We,simultaneous perception,object shape,location,two psychological test paradigms,the agent,Bayesian sequential analysis,the agent,a fixed interval,maximum likelihood estimation,A benefit,free-response Bayesian perception,it,tuning,reaction speed,accuracy,addition,we,large gains,decision performance,unforced responses,null decisions,ambiguous data,free-response Bayesian perception,benefits,artificial systems,them,behavior,
Since ancient times, several cultures including those from China, Egypt, India and Rome gave rigid solutions to improve physical problems of affected people by several neurological disorders. These measures were applied, at that time, by individuals prepared for doing such task. It evolved throughout the years supported by the discovery and comprehension of the so-called neural plasticity as well as the current evidences that the nervous system is able of remodelating itself even in adult times. It is known today that synaptic modulation is the base of neurorehabilitation improved by use and application of specific protocols to each neurological disorder. Among these, we have to consider not only all of the already known on rehabilitation measures but also on neurorobotic, neurorestauration, neuromodulation, neurostimulation as well as virtual reality, among others interventions. Neurorehabilitation has been able to put together modern science with ancient manual therapies helping to change, in a positive way, the attitude toward people with disabilities in the twenty one century; likewise, it offers new hopes for functional recovery where before was nothing. Further, it gives opportunities to get a better quality of life to affected people and its corresponding families. It is very interesting to know that the modern concepts of neurorehabilitation performed in a multidisciplinary approach are very useful for humans on the Earth and people interested in conquer Space.
ancient times,several cultures,China,rigid solutions,physical problems,affected people,several neurological disorders,These measures,that time,individuals,such task,It,the years,the discovery,comprehension,the so-called neural plasticity,the nervous system,itself,adult times,It,synaptic modulation,the base,neurorehabilitation,use,application,specific protocols,each neurological disorder,we,rehabilitation measures,neurorestauration,neuromodulation,neurostimulation,virtual reality,others,interventions,Neurorehabilitation,modern science,ancient manual therapies,a positive way,the attitude,people,disabilities,the twenty one century,it,new hopes,functional recovery,nothing,it,opportunities,a better quality,life,affected people,its corresponding families,It,the modern concepts,neurorehabilitation,a multidisciplinary approach,humans,the Earth,conquer Space,
Robotic researchers face fundamental challenges when designing autonomous humanoid robots, which are able to interact with real dynamic environments. In such unstructured environments, the robot has to autonomously segment objects, detect and categorize relevant situations, decide when to initiate and terminate actions. As humans are very good in these tasks, inspiration from models of human sensory-motor and cognitive processes may help design more flexible and autonomous robotic control architectures. Recently, we have extended a neurally-inspired model for sequential organization with a representation of hierarchies of behaviors. Here, we implement this model on a robotic platform and demonstrate its functionality under constraints of a real-world implementation. The architecture generates hierarchically organized behavioral sequences on the Aldebarans humanoid robot NAO. The key dynamic components of serial organization - such as the intention, condition of satisfaction (CoS), and interactions within the hierarchy - are coupled to robotic sensors and motors and bring about flexible and autonomous behavior. We also demonstrate how continuous in time neural-dynamic parts of the controller may be seamlessly integrated with preprogramed algorithmic behaviors, introducing flexibility, autonomy, and ability to learn, while avoiding unnecessary complexity of the architecture. I."
Robotic researchers,fundamental challenges,autonomous humanoid robots,real dynamic environments,such unstructured environments,the robot,objects,relevant situations,actions,humans,these tasks,inspiration,models,human sensory-motor,cognitive processes,more flexible and autonomous robotic control architectures,we,a neurally-inspired model,sequential organization,a representation,hierarchies,behaviors,we,this model,a robotic platform,its functionality,constraints,a real-world implementation,The architecture,hierarchically organized behavioral sequences,the Aldebarans humanoid robot,The key dynamic components,serial organization,the intention,condition,satisfaction,interactions,the hierarchy,robotic sensors,motors,flexible and autonomous behavior,We,time neural-dynamic parts,the controller,preprogramed algorithmic behaviors,flexibility,autonomy,ability,unnecessary complexity,the architecture,
Neuromorphic engineers aim to mimic the precise and efficient mechanisms of the nervous system to process information using spikes from sensors to actuators. There are many available works that sense and process information in a spike-based way. But there are still several gaps in the actuation and motor control field in a spike-based way. Spike-based Proportional-Integrative-Derivative controllers (PID) are present in the literature. On the other hand, neuro-inspired control models as VITE (Vector Integration To End point) and FLETE (Factorization of muscle Length and muscle Tension) are also present in the literature. This paper presents another step toward the spike implementation of those neuro-inspired models. We present a spike-based ramp multiplier. VITE algorithm generates the way to achieve a final position targeted by a mobile robotic arm. The block presented is used as a gate for the way involved and it also puts the incoming movement on speed with a variable slope profile. Only spikes for information representation were used and the process is in real time. The software simulation based on Simulink and Xilinx System Generator shows the accurate adjust to the traditional processing for short time periods and the hardware tests confirm and extend the previous simulated results for any time. We have implemented the spikes generator, the ramp multiplier and the low pass filter into the Virtex-5 FPGA and connected this with an USB-AER (Address Event Representation) board to monitor the spikes.
Neuromorphic engineers,the precise and efficient mechanisms,the nervous system,information,spikes,sensors,actuators,many available works,information,a spike-based way,several gaps,the actuation,motor control field,a spike-based way,Spike-based Proportional-Integrative-Derivative controllers,the literature,the other hand,VITE,End point,muscle Length,the literature,This paper,another step,the spike implementation,those neuro-inspired models,We,a spike-based ramp multiplier,VITE algorithm,the way,a final position,a mobile robotic arm,The block,a gate,the way,it,the incoming movement,speed,a variable slope profile,information representation,the process,real time,The software simulation,Simulink,the accurate adjust,the traditional processing,short time periods,the hardware tests,the previous simulated results,any time,We,the spikes generator,the ramp multiplier,the low pass filter,the Virtex-5 FPGA,an USB-AER (Address Event Representation) board,the spikes,
Active vibrissal touch can be used to replace or to supplement sensory systems such as computer vision and, therefore, improve the sensory capacity of mobile robots. This paper describes how arrays of whisker-like touch sensors have been incorporated onto mobile robot platforms taking inspiration from biology for their morphology and control. There were two motivations for this work: first, to build a physical platform on which to model, and therefore test, recent neuroethological hypotheses about vibrissal touch; second, to exploit the control strategies and morphology observed in the biological analogue to maximize the quality and quantity of tactile sensory information derived from the artificial whisker array. We describe the design of a new whiskered robot, Shrewbot, endowed with a biomimetic array of individually controlled whiskers and a neuroethologically inspired whisking pattern generation mechanism. We then present results showing how the morphology of the whisker array shapes the sensory surface surrounding the robots head, and demonstrate the impact of active touch control on the sensory information that can be acquired by the robot. We show that adopting bio-inspired, low latency motor control of the rhythmic motion of the whiskers in response to contact-induced stimuli usefully constrains the sensory range, while also maximizing the number of whisker contacts. The robot experiments also demonstrate that the sensory consequences of active touch control can be usefully investigated in biomimetic robots."
Active vibrissal touch,sensory systems,computer vision,the sensory capacity,mobile robots,This paper,arrays,whisker-like touch sensors,mobile robot platforms,inspiration,biology,their morphology,control,two motivations,this work,a physical platform,vibrissal touch,the control strategies,morphology,the biological analogue,the quality,quantity,tactile sensory information,the artificial whisker array,We,the design,a new whiskered robot,a biomimetic array,individually controlled whiskers,a neuroethologically inspired whisking pattern generation mechanism,We,the morphology,the whisker array,the sensory surface,the robots head,the impact,active touch control,the sensory information,the robot,We,bio-inspired, low latency motor control,the rhythmic motion,the whiskers,response,contact-induced stimuli,the sensory range,the number,whisker contacts,The robot experiments,the sensory consequences,active touch control,biomimetic robots,
A neurobot (NR) is a mechatronic wearable robot that can be applied to drive a paralyzed limb. Through the application of controllable forces, a NR can assist, replace, or retrain a certain motor function. Robotic intervention in rehabilitation of motor disorders has a potential to improve traditional therapeutic interventions. Because of its flexibility, repeatability and quantifiability, NRs have been more and more applied in neurorehabilitation. Furthermore, combination of NRs with functional electrical stimulation/therapy constitutes a trend to overcome a number of practical limitations to widespread the application of NRs in clinical settings and motor control studies. In this review, we examine the motor learning principles, robotic control approaches and novel developments from studies with NRs and hybrid systems, with a focus on rehabilitation of the lower limbs.
A neurobot,a mechatronic wearable robot,a paralyzed limb,the application,controllable forces,a NR,a certain motor function,Robotic intervention,rehabilitation,motor disorders,a potential,traditional therapeutic interventions,its flexibility,repeatability,quantifiability,NRs,neurorehabilitation,combination,NRs,functional electrical stimulation/therapy,a trend,a number,practical limitations,the application,NRs,clinical settings,motor control studies,this review,we,the motor learning principles,robotic control approaches,novel developments,studies,NRs,hybrid systems,a focus,rehabilitation,the lower limbs,
Background Force feedback in robotic minimally invasive surgery allows the human operator to manipulate tissues as if his/her hands were in contact with the patient organs. A force sensor mounted on the probe raises problems with sterilization of the overall surgical tool. Also, the use of off-axis gauges introduces a moment that increases the friction force on the bearing, which can easily mask off the signal, given the small force to be measured. Methods This work aims at designing and testing two methods for estimating the resistance to the advancement (force) experienced by a standard probe for brain biopsies within a brain-like material. The further goal is to provide a neurosurgeon using a master-slave tele-operated driver with direct feedback on the tissue mechanical characteristics. Two possible sensing methods, in-axis strain gauge force sensor and position-position error (control-based method), were implemented and tested, both aimed at device miniaturization. The analysis carried out was aimed at fulfilment of the psychophysics requirements for force detection and delay tolerance, also taking into account safety, which is directly related to the last two issues. Controller parameters definition is addressed and consideration is given to development of the device with integration of a haptic interface. Results Results show better performance of the control-based method (RMSE < 0.1 N), which is also best for reliability, sterilizability, and material dimensions for the application addressed. Conclusions The control-based method developed for force estimation is compatible with the neurosurgical application and is also capable of measuring tissue resistance without any additional sensors. Force feedback in minimally invasive surgery allows the human operator to manipulate tissues as if his/her hands were in contact with the patient organs. Copyright (C) 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Background Force feedback,robotic,minimally invasive surgery,the human operator,tissues,his/her hands,contact,the patient organs,A force sensor,the probe,problems,sterilization,the overall surgical tool,the use,axis,off-axis gauges,a moment,the friction force,the bearing,the signal,the small force,Methods,This work,designing and testing two methods,the resistance,the advancement,a standard probe,brain biopsies,a brain-like material,The further goal,a neurosurgeon,a master-slave tele-operated driver,direct feedback,the tissue mechanical characteristics,Two possible sensing methods,axis,device miniaturization,The analysis,fulfilment,the psychophysics requirements,force detection,delay,tolerance,account safety,the last two issues,Controller parameters definition,consideration,development,the device,integration,a haptic interface,Results Results,better performance,the control-based method,reliability,sterilizability,material dimensions,the application,The control-based method,force estimation,the neurosurgical application,tissue resistance,any additional sensors,Force feedback,minimally invasive surgery,the human operator,tissues,his/her hands,contact,the patient organs,
The impressive capabilities of the mammalian brain-ranging from perception, pattern recognition and memory formation to decision making and motor activity control-have inspired their re-creation in a wide range of artificial intelligence systems for applications such as face recognition, anomaly detection, medical diagnosis and robotic vehicle control(1). Yet before neuron-based brains evolved, complex biomolecular circuits provided individual cells with the intelligent behaviour required for survival(2). However, the study of how molecules can think has not produced an equal variety of computational models and applications of artificial chemical systems. Although biomolecular systems have been hypothesized to carry out neural-network-like computations in vivo(3,2,4) and the synthesis of artificial chemical analogues has been proposed theoretically(5-9), experimental work(10-13) has so far fallen short of fully implementing even a single neuron. Here, building on the richness of DNA computing(14) and strand displacement circuitry(15), we show how molecular systems can exhibit autonomous brain-like behaviours. Using a simple DNA gate architecture(16) that allows experimental scale-up of multilayer digital circuits(17), we systematically transform arbitrary linear threshold circuits(18) (an artificial neural network model) into DNA strand displacement cascades that function as small neural networks. Our approach even allows us to implement a Hopfield associative memory(19) with four fully connected artificial neurons that, after training in silico, remembers four single-stranded DNA patterns and recalls the most similar one when presented with an incomplete pattern. Our results suggest that DNA strand displacement cascades could be used to endow autonomous chemical systems with the capability of recognizing patterns of molecular events, making decisions and responding to the environment."
The impressive capabilities,perception,pattern recognition,memory formation,decision making,motor activity control,their re-creation,a wide range,artificial intelligence systems,applications,face recognition,anomaly detection,medical diagnosis,robotic vehicle control(1,neuron-based brains,complex biomolecular circuits,individual cells,the intelligent behaviour,survival(2,the study,molecules,an equal variety,computational models,applications,artificial chemical systems,biomolecular systems,neural-network-like computations,vivo(3,2,4,the synthesis,artificial chemical analogues,even a single neuron,the richness,DNA computing(14,we,molecular systems,autonomous brain-like behaviours,a simple DNA gate,experimental scale-up,multilayer digital circuits(17,we,arbitrary linear threshold circuits(18,an artificial neural network model,DNA strand displacement,that function,small neural networks,Our approach,us,a Hopfield associative memory(19,four fully connected artificial neurons,training,silico,four single-stranded DNA patterns,the most similar one,an incomplete pattern,Our results,DNA strand displacement cascades,autonomous chemical systems,the capability,patterns,molecular events,decisions,the environment,
Infants are able to adaptively associate auditory stimuli with visual stimuli even in their first year of life, as demonstrated by multimodal habituation studies. Different from language acquisition during later developmental stages, this adaptive learning in young infants is temporary and still very much stimulus-driven. Hence, temporal aspects of environmental and social factors figure crucially in the formation of prelexical multimodal associations. Study of these associations can offer important clues regarding how semantics are bootstrapped in real-world embodied infants. In this paper, we present a neuroanatomically based embodied computational model of multimodal habituation to explore the temporal and social constraints on the learning observed in very young infants. In particular, the model is able to explain empirical results showing that auditory word stimuli must be presented synchronously with visual stimulus movement for the two to be associated.
Infants,auditory stimuli,visual stimuli,their first year,life,multimodal habituation studies,language acquisition,later developmental stages,this adaptive learning,young infants,temporal aspects,environmental and social factors,the formation,prelexical multimodal associations,Study,these associations,important clues,semantics,real-world embodied infants,this paper,we,a neuroanatomically based embodied computational model,multimodal habituation,the temporal and social constraints,the learning,very young infants,the model,empirical results,auditory word stimuli,visual stimulus movement,
Background and Purpose: Few motor therapies increase active movement in the severely impaired arm of individuals with chronic stroke. Existing robotic devices to address this need are large and expensive. This case study describes the application and reports outcomes associated with a repetitive task-specific training (RTP) program incorporating a portable robotic device. We assessed outcomes related to affected arm impairment, ability to perform valued activities, satisfaction with movement performance, and quality of life in a participant with chronic stroke exhibiting severe arm hemiparesis. Case Description: The participant was a 53-year-old man, 30 months after hemorrhagic stroke. At the time of enrollment, he exhibited some active shoulder and elbow flexion, but no active elbow extension, and no active movement at any joint below the elbow. Intervention: The participant engaged in RTP incorporating a portable, electromyography-triggered neurorobotic device in 1-hour sessions, 3 days/week for 8 weeks using the affected arm. Outcomes: The upper extremity section of the Fugl-Meyer Impairment scale (FM), the Canadian Occupational Performance Measure (COPM), and the Stroke Impact Scale (SIS) were administered before and after training. After intervention, the subject exhibited reduced affected arm impairment (+2 points on the FM), increased ability to perform valued activities, increased satisfaction with performance of these activities (indicated by score increases of +2 and +1.8 points on the COPM Performance and Satisfaction scales, respectively), improved strength, performance of activities of daily living, hand function, participation, and physical function (as indicated by increases in respective SIS scores). Discussion: The RTP incorporating the neurorobotic device appears promising. To our knowledge, this is the first study documenting a portable robotic-based RTP strategy in a person exhibiting this severity of hemiparesis.
Few motor therapies,active movement,the severely impaired arm,individuals,chronic stroke,Existing robotic devices,this need,This case study,the application,reports outcomes,a repetitive task-specific training (RTP) program,a portable robotic device,We,outcomes,affected arm impairment,ability,valued activities,satisfaction,movement performance,quality,life,a participant,chronic stroke,severe arm hemiparesis,The participant,a 53-year-old man,hemorrhagic stroke,the time,enrollment,he,some active shoulder,flexion,the elbow,The participant,RTP,a portable, electromyography-triggered neurorobotic device,1-hour sessions,8 weeks,the affected arm,The upper extremity section,the Fugl-Meyer Impairment scale,the Canadian Occupational Performance Measure,training,intervention,the subject,reduced affected arm impairment,the FM,increased ability,valued activities,satisfaction,performance,these activities,score increases,+2,points,the COPM Performance and Satisfaction scales,strength,performance,activities,daily living,hand function,participation,physical function,increases,respective SIS scores,The RTP,the neurorobotic device,our knowledge,the first study,a portable robotic-based RTP strategy,a person,this severity,hemiparesis,
The concept of cognitive abilities is commonly associated to humans and animals like mammals, birds and others. Nevertheless, in the last years several research groups have intensified the studies on insects that posses a much simpler brain structure even if they are able to show interesting memory and learning capabilities. In this paper a survey on some key results obtained in a joint research activity among Engineers and Neurogeneticians is reported. They were focussed toward the design and implementation of a model of the insect brain inspired by the Drosophila melanogaster. Particular attention was paid to the main neural centers the Mushroom Bodies and the Central Complex. Moreover a Software/Hardware framework, where the model could be tested and evaluated by using both simulated and real robots, is described. This research activity aims at introducing an insect brain to act as a controller for very smart and sophisticated insectoid body structures, to give rise to a new generation of novel embodied intelligent machines.
The concept,cognitive abilities,humans,animals,mammals,birds,others,the last years,several research groups,the studies,insects,a much simpler brain structure,they,interesting memory,learning capabilities,this paper,a survey,some key results,a joint research activity,Engineers,They,the design,implementation,a model,the insect brain,the Drosophila melanogaster,Particular attention,the main neural centers,a Software/Hardware framework,the model,both simulated and real robots,This research activity,an insect brain,a controller,very smart and sophisticated insectoid body structures,rise,a new generation,novel,embodied intelligent machines,
This paper presents a brain-inspired neural architecture with spatial cognition and navigation capability. It captures some navigation properties of rat brain in hidden goal hunting. The brain-inspired system consists of two main parts. One part is hippocarnpal circuitry and the other part is hierarchical vision architecture. The hippocampus is mainly responsible for the memory and spatial navigation in the brain. The vision system provides the key information about the environment. In the experiment, the cognitive model is implemented in a mobile robot which is placed in a spatial memory task. During the navigation, the neurons in CA1 area show a place dependent response. This place-dependent pattern of CA1 guides the motor neuronal area which then dictates the robot move to the goal location. The results of current study could contribute to the development of brain-inspired cognitive map which enables the mobile robot to perform a rodent-like behavior in the navigation task.
This paper,a brain-inspired neural architecture,spatial cognition,navigation capability,It,some navigation properties,rat brain,hidden goal hunting,The brain-inspired system,two main parts,One part,hippocarnpal circuitry,the other part,hierarchical vision architecture,The hippocampus,the memory,spatial navigation,the brain,The vision system,the key information,the environment,the experiment,the cognitive model,a mobile robot,a spatial memory task,the navigation,the neurons,CA1 area,a place dependent response,This place-dependent pattern,CA1,the motor neuronal area,the robot move,the goal location,The results,current study,the development,brain-inspired cognitive map,the mobile robot,a rodent-like behavior,the navigation task,
An effective framework for general object recognition and localization from complex backgrounds had not been found till the brain-inspired Where-What Network (WWN) series by Weng and coworkers. This paper reports two advances along this line. One is the automatic adaptation of the receptive field of each neuron to disregard input dimensions that arise from backgrounds but without a handcrafted object model, since the initial hexagonal receptive field does not tit well the contour of the automatically assigned object view. The other is the hierarchical parallelization technique and its implementation on the GPU-based accelerator using the CUDA parallel language. The experimental results showed that automatic adaptation of the receptive fields led to improvements in the recognition rate. The hierarchical parallelization technique has achieved a speedup of 16 times compared to the C program. This speed-up was employed on the Haibao Robot displayed at the World Expo, Shanghai 2010.
An effective framework,general object recognition,localization,complex backgrounds,Weng,coworkers,This paper,two advances,this line,the automatic adaptation,the receptive field,each neuron,input dimensions,backgrounds,a handcrafted object model,the initial hexagonal receptive field,the contour,the automatically assigned object view,the hierarchical parallelization technique,its implementation,the GPU-based accelerator,the CUDA parallel language,The experimental results,automatic adaptation,the receptive fields,improvements,the recognition rate,The hierarchical parallelization technique,a speedup,16 times,the C program,This speed-up,the Haibao Robot,the World Expo,
There are many applications for which a patient needs functional compensation due to motor disorders in daily activities. Classic research has focused on robotics solutions in terms of actuators or motors, but the point of this paper is to analyze new solutions combining both biological and artificial structures, in order to improve standard developments. Nowadays wearable Robots are taking an important role in rehabilitation purposes, due to this issue lots of new designs are emerging, but most of them are not still prepared to be used in terms of autonomy, weight, etc. Under the Hybrid Neuroprosthetic and Neurorobotic devices for Functional Compensation and Rehabilitation (HYPER) project, new actuator technologies have been developed in order to improve the adaptability and portability of rehabilitation devices. The designed device is based on a lightweight magnetorheological (MR) clutch which is able to transmit torque from a motor to the injured joint. Though it is intended to work in human upper limb (elbow mainly), other future designs will also be studied for other human joints. Simulation results using Simulink (R), MSC Adams (R) and MSMS (R) are reported to illustrate the viability of the proposed device.
many applications,a patient,functional compensation,motor disorders,daily activities,Classic research,robotics solutions,terms,actuators,motors,the point,this paper,new solutions,both biological and artificial structures,order,standard developments,wearable Robots,an important role,rehabilitation purposes,this issue,lots,new designs,them,terms,autonomy,weight,the Hybrid Neuroprosthetic,Neurorobotic devices,Functional Compensation,new actuator technologies,order,the adaptability,portability,rehabilitation devices,The designed device,torque,a motor,the injured joint,it,human upper limb,other future designs,other human joints,Simulation results,Simulink,the viability,the proposed device,
Epidural stimulation to trigger locomotion is a promising treatment after spinal cord injury (SCI). Continuous stimulation during locomotion is the conventional method. To improve recovery, we tested an innovative robot-driven epidural stimulation method, combined with a trunk-based neurorobotic system. The system was tested in rat, and the results were compared with the results of the neurorobotic therapy combined with the conventional epidural stimulation method. The rats had better recovery after treatment with the robot-driven epidural stimulation than conventional stimulation in our neurorobotic rehabilitation system.
Epidural stimulation,locomotion,a promising treatment,spinal cord injury,Continuous stimulation,locomotion,the conventional method,recovery,we,an innovative robot-driven epidural stimulation method,a trunk-based neurorobotic system,The system,rat,the results,the results,the neurorobotic therapy,the conventional epidural stimulation method,The rats,better recovery,treatment,the robot-driven epidural stimulation,conventional stimulation,our neurorobotic rehabilitation system,
This paper describes a neural network model for the reactive behavioural navigation of an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) in which an innovative, neurobiological inspired sensorization control system and a hardware architectures are being implemented. The AUV has been with several types of environmental and oceanographic instruments such as CTD sensors, chlorophyll, turbidity, optical dissolved oxygen (YSI V6600 sonde) and nitrate analyzer (SUNA) together with ADCP, side scan sonar and video camera, in a flexible configuration to provide a water quality monitoring platform with mapping capabilities. This neurobiological inspired control architecture for autonomous intelligent navigation was implemented on an AUV capable of operating during large periods of time for observation and monitoring. In this work, the autonomy of the AUV is evaluated in several scenarios.
This paper,a neural network model,the reactive behavioural navigation,an autonomous underwater vehicle,in which an innovative, neurobiological inspired sensorization control system,a hardware architectures,The AUV,several types,environmental and oceanographic instruments,CTD sensors,chlorophyll,turbidity,optical dissolved oxygen,nitrate analyzer,ADCP,a flexible configuration,a water quality monitoring platform,mapping capabilities,control architecture,autonomous intelligent navigation,large periods,time,observation,monitoring,this work,the autonomy,the AUV,several scenarios,
This chapter presents a general purpose model of the brain, called Developmental Networks (DN). Rooted in the biological genomic equivalence principle, our model proposes a general-purpose cell-centered in-place learning scheme to handle all levels of brain development and operation, from the cell level all the way to the brain level. It clarifies five necessary "chunks" of the brain "puzzle": development, architecture, area, space and time. Then, this chapter analyzes how such a model enables a developmental robot to deal with temporal contexts. It deals with temporal context of any length without a dedicated temporal component.
This chapter,a general purpose model,the brain,the biological genomic equivalence principle,our model,place,a general-purpose cell-centered in-place learning scheme,all levels,brain development,operation,the cell level,the brain level,It,five necessary "chunks,the brain "puzzle,development,architecture,area,space,time,this chapter,such a model,a developmental robot,temporal contexts,It,temporal context,any length,a dedicated temporal component,
Promising results on flexible and large area pressure sensors for human-neuroprostheses and human-neurobotic interface assessment are presented. Array sensors of 4x4 and 8x8 based on polymer and plastic electronics have been fabricated and characterized with a resolution of 1 and 0.25 cm(2). The working pressure range is between 0 and 1 Kg/cm(2) and the offset measured is around 0.03 Kg/cm(2). The response time is around 1 ms.
results,flexible and large area pressure sensors,human-neuroprostheses,human-neurobotic interface assessment,Array sensors,polymer and plastic electronics,a resolution,cm(2,The working pressure range,between 0 and 1 Kg/cm(2,the offset,0.03 Kg/cm(2,The response time,around 1 ms,
The design of a brain machine interface for the restoration of lower limb control after spinal cord injury involves the restoration of cortical control of the spinal circuits responsible for this movement. However little is known about how these cortical circuits are modified by spinal cord injury. For this purpose we trained rats to perform a skilled hindlimb task and examined how the activity of the neurons in the hindlimb cortex encodes this movement. In this paper we used a method to quantitatively measure the amount of information encoded by the neuronal ensembles about the specific kinematics of movement. Our results show that the cortical firing patterns can encode for intention to move with or without actual limb movement, before and after a complete spinal transection.
The design,a brain machine interface,the restoration,lower limb control,spinal cord injury,the restoration,cortical control,the spinal circuits,this movement,these cortical circuits,spinal cord injury,this purpose,we,rats,a skilled hindlimb task,the activity,the neurons,the hindlimb cortex,this movement,this paper,we,a method,the amount,information,the neuronal ensembles,the specific kinematics,movement,Our results,the cortical firing patterns,intention,actual limb movement,a complete spinal transection,
In spite of their small brain, insects show a complex behavior repertoire and are becoming a reference point in neuroscience and robotics. In particular, it is very interesting to analyze how biological reaction-diffusion systems are able to codify sensorial information with the addition of learning capabilities. In this paper we propose a new model of the olfactory system of the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster. The architecture is a multi-layer spiking neural network, inspired by the structures of the insect brain mainly involved in the olfactory conditioning, namely the Mushroom Bodies, the Lateral Horns and the Antennal Lobes. The Antennal Lobes model is based on a competitive topology that transduces the sensorial information into a pattern, projecting such information to the Mushroom Bodies model. This model is based on a first and second order reaction-diffusion paradigm that leads to a spontaneous emerging of clusters. The Lateral Horns have been modeled as an input-triggered resetting system. The structure, besides showing the already known capabilities of associative learning, via a bottom-up processing, is also able to realize a top-down modulation at the input level, in order to implement an expectation-based filtering of the sensorial inputs.
spite,their small brain,insects,a complex behavior repertoire,a reference point,neuroscience,robotics,it,biological reaction-diffusion systems,sensorial information,the addition,capabilities,this paper,we,a new model,the olfactory system,the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster,The architecture,a multi-layer spiking neural network,the structures,the insect brain,the olfactory conditioning,The Antennal Lobes model,a competitive topology,the sensorial information,a pattern,such information,the Mushroom Bodies model,This model,a first and second order reaction-diffusion paradigm,a spontaneous emerging,clusters,The Lateral Horns,an input-triggered resetting system,The structure,the already known capabilities,associative learning,a bottom-up processing,a top-down modulation,the input level,order,an expectation-based filtering,the sensorial inputs,
The granularity of "action" within a system is highly depending on the internal representation for the task, or intention of what to do if it is a biological system. In the same time, there are several levels of adaptation when the system tries to complete a mission. The problem of choosing the right level of action representation is essential for robot controls as well as in learning paradigms. Both tend to use low-granularity and transfer the processed information to upper levels constructively. However the system never guarantees the completion time of the mission if the system is composed of stiff functional blocks with a specific temporal granularity at the bottom level. However, we biological system have an ability to manage the global time for scheduling and reorganization of tasks to finish by the deadline. Brain-inspired robotics allows us to investigate a distributed parallel information system, the brain, with the ability of time management as a real time control system of the physical body through flexible planning of necessary actions by interacting with the real environment. It is an extension of subsumption approaches that fixed a set of behaviors as the basic unit of action in the viewpoint of temporal property. By focusing on the temporal granularity as a consequence of coordination among multiple levels, a self-confident robot control may arise from a coupling between top-down or purpose-oriented decomposition of the purpose to primitive functions with flexible time windows and bottom-up of sensori-motor reactions in dynamic environments.
The granularity,"action,a system,the internal representation,the task,intention,what,it,a biological system,the same time,several levels,adaptation,the system,a mission,The problem,the right level,action representation,robot controls,paradigms,low-granularity,the processed information,upper levels,the system,the completion time,the mission,the system,stiff functional blocks,a specific temporal granularity,the bottom level,we biological system,an ability,the global time,scheduling,reorganization,tasks,the deadline,Brain-inspired robotics,us,a distributed parallel information system,the brain,the ability,time management,a real time control system,the physical body,flexible planning,necessary actions,the real environment,It,an extension,subsumption,a set,behaviors,the basic unit,action,the viewpoint,temporal property,the temporal granularity,a consequence,coordination,multiple levels,a self-confident robot control,a coupling,top-down,purpose-oriented decomposition,the purpose,primitive functions,flexible time windows,bottom-up,sensori-motor reactions,dynamic environments,
Recent human pharmacological fMRI studies suggest that oxytocin (OT) is a centrally-acting neurotransmitter important in the development and expression of trusting relationships in men and women. OT administration in humans was shown to increase trust, acceptance of social risk, memory of faces, and inference of the emotional state of others, in part by directly inhibiting the amygdala. However, the cerebral microcircuitry underlying this mechanism is still unclear. Here, we propose a spiking integrate-and-fire neuronal model of several key interacting brain regions affected by OT neurophysiology during social trust behavior. As a social behavior scenario, we embodied the brain simulator in a behaving virtual humanoid neurorobot, which interacted with a human via a camera. At the physiological level, the amygdala tonic firing was modeled using our recurrent asynchronous irregular nonlinear (RAIN) network architecture. OT cells were modeled with triple apical dendrites characteristic of their structure in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. Our architecture demonstrated the success of our system in learning trust by discriminating concordant from discordant movements of a human actor. This led to a cooperative versus protective behavior by the neurorobot after being challenged by a new intent.
Recent human pharmacological fMRI studies,the development,expression,trusting relationships,men,women,OT administration,humans,trust,social risk,faces,the emotional state,others,part,the amygdala,the cerebral microcircuitry,this mechanism,we,a spiking integrate-and-fire neuronal model,several key interacting brain regions,OT neurophysiology,social trust behavior,a social behavior scenario,we,the brain simulator,a behaving virtual humanoid neurorobot,a human,a camera,the physiological level,the amygdala tonic firing,our recurrent asynchronous irregular nonlinear (RAIN,network architecture,OT cells,triple apical dendrites,their structure,the paraventricular nucleus,the hypothalamus,Our architecture,the success,our system,trust,concordant,discordant movements,a human actor,protective behavior,the neurorobot,a new intent,
This paper is based on the simulation of a convolution model for multimedia applications using the neuro-inspired Address-Event-Representation (AER) philosophy. AER is a communication mechanism between chips gathering thousands of spiking neurons. These spiking neurons are able to process the visual information in a frame-free style like the human brain do. All the spiking neurons are working in parallel and each of them implement an operation when an input stimulus is received. The result of this operation could be, or not, to produce an output event. There exist AER retinas and other sensors, AER processors (convolvers, WTA filters), learning chips and robot actuators. In this paper we present the implementation of an AER convolution processor for the supercomputer CRS (cluster research support) of the University of Cadiz (UCA). This research involves a test cases design in which the optimal parameters are set to run the AER convolution in parallel processors. These cases consist on running the convolution taking an image divided in different number of parts, applying to each part a Sobel filter for edge detection, and based on the AER-TOOL simulator. Runtimes are compared for all cases and the optimal configuration of the system is discussed. In general, CRS obtain better performances when the image is subdivided than for the whole image processing.
This paper,the simulation,a convolution model,multimedia applications,the neuro-inspired Address-Event-Representation,philosophy,AER,a communication mechanism,chips,thousands,neurons,These spiking neurons,the visual information,a frame-free style,the human brain,All the spiking neurons,parallel,them,an operation,an input stimulus,The result,this operation,an output event,AER retinas,other sensors,AER processors,chips,robot actuators,this paper,we,the implementation,an AER convolution processor,the supercomputer,the University,Cadiz,This research,a test cases design,the optimal parameters,the AER convolution,parallel processors,These cases,the convolution,an image,different number,parts,each part,a Sobel filter,edge detection,the AER-TOOL simulator,Runtimes,all cases,the optimal configuration,the system,CRS,better performances,the image,the whole image processing,
Autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) have great advantages for activities in deep oceans, and are expected as the attractive tool for near future underwater development or investigation. However, AUVs have various problems which should be solved for motion control, acquisition of sensors information, behavioral decision, navigation without collision, self-localization and so on. This paper proposes an adaptive biologically inspired neural controller for trajectory tracking of AUVs in nonstationary environment. The kinematic adaptive neuro-controller is an unsupervised neural network, which is termed Self-Organization Direction Mapping Network (SODMN). The network uses an associative learning system to generate transformations between spatial coordinates and coordinates of propellers velocity. The neurobiological inspired control architecture requires no knowledge of the geometry of the robot or of the quality, number, or configuration of the robots sensors. The SODMN proposed in this paper represents a simplified way to understand in part the mechanisms that allow the brain to collect sensory input to control adaptive behaviours of autonomous navigation of the animals. The efficiency of the proposed neurobiological inspired controller for autonomous intelligent navigation was implemented on an underwater vehicle capable of operating during large periods of time for observation and monitoring tasks."
Autonomous underwater vehicles,AUVs,great advantages,activities,deep oceans,the attractive tool,near future underwater development,investigation,AUVs,various problems,motion control,acquisition,sensors information,behavioral decision,navigation,collision,self-localization,This paper,an adaptive biologically inspired neural controller,trajectory,tracking,AUVs,nonstationary environment,The kinematic adaptive neuro-controller,an unsupervised neural network,The network,an associative learning system,transformations,spatial coordinates,coordinates,propellers velocity,control architecture,no knowledge,the geometry,the robot,the quality,number,configuration,the robots sensors,The SODMN,this paper,a simplified way,part,the mechanisms,the brain,sensory input,adaptive behaviours,autonomous navigation,the animals,The efficiency,the proposed neurobiological,controller,autonomous intelligent navigation,an underwater vehicle,large periods,time,observation,monitoring,tasks,
We present a neurorobotic framework to investigate tactile information processing at the early stages of the somatosensory pathway. We focus on spatiotemporal coding of first and second order responses to Braille stimulation, which offers a suitable protocol to investigate the neural bases of fine touch discrimination. First, we model Slow Adaptive type I fingertip mechanoreceptor responses to Braille characters sensed both statically and dynamically. We employ a network of spiking neurones to transduce analogue skin deformations into primary spike trains. Then, we model second order neurones in the cuneate nucleus (CN) of the brainstem to study how mechanoreceptor responses are possibly processed prior to their transmission to downstream central areas. In the model, the connectivity layout of mechanoreceptor-to-cuneate projections produces a sparse CN code. To characterise the reliability of neurotransmission we employ an information theoretical measure accounting for the metrical properties of spiking signals. Our results show that perfect discrimination of primary and secondary responses to a set of 26 Braille characters is achieved within 100 and 500 ms of stimulus onset, in static and dynamic conditions, respectively. Furthermore, clusters of responses to different stimuli are better separable after the CN processing. This finding holds for both statically and dynamically delivered stimuli. In the presented system, when sliding the artificial fingertip over a Braille line, a speed of 40 - 50 mm/s is optimal in terms of rapid and reliable character discrimination. This result is coherent with psychophysical observations reporting average reading speeds of 30 - 40 +/- 5 mm/s adopted by expert Braille readers. ((C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
We,a neurorobotic framework,tactile information processing,the early stages,the somatosensory pathway,We,spatiotemporal coding,first and second order responses,Braille stimulation,a suitable protocol,the neural bases,fine touch discrimination,we,Slow Adaptive type,I,mechanoreceptor responses,Braille characters,We,a network,neurones,analogue skin deformations,primary spike trains,we,second order neurones,the cuneate nucleus,the brainstem,mechanoreceptor responses,their transmission,downstream central areas,the model,the connectivity layout,cuneate,mechanoreceptor-to-cuneate projections,a sparse CN code,the reliability,neurotransmission,we,an information theoretical measure,the metrical properties,spiking signals,Our results,perfect discrimination,primary and secondary responses,a set,26 Braille characters,stimulus onset,static and dynamic conditions,clusters,responses,different stimuli,the CN processing,This finding,both statically and dynamically delivered stimuli,the presented system,the artificial fingertip,a Braille line,a speed,40 - 50 mm/s,terms,rapid and reliable character discrimination,This result,psychophysical observations,average reading speeds,30 - 40 +/-,expert Braille readers,All rights,


In the field of minimally-actuated robots, energy efficiency and stability are two of the fundamental criteria that can increase autonomy and improve task-performance capabilities. In this paper, we demonstrate that the energetic cost of leg swinging in dynamic robots can be reduced without significantly affecting stability by emulating the physiological use of passive joint stiffness, and we suggest that similar efficiency improvements could be realized in dynamic walking robots. Our experimental model consists of a two-segment dynamically swinging robotic leg with hip and knee joints. Closed-loop control is provided to the hip using neurally inspired, nonlinear oscillators that do not override the legs natural dynamics. We examined both linear and nonlinear, physiologically based stiffness profiles at the hip and knee and a hyperextension-preventing hard stop at the knee. Our results indicate that passive joint stiffness applied at one or both joints can improve the energy efficiency of leg swinging by reducing the actuator work required to counter gravitational torque and by promoting kinetic energy transfer between the shank and thigh. Energetic cost reductions (relative to the no-stiffness case) of approximately 25% can be achieved using hip stiffness, provided that the hip actuation bias angle is not coincident with gravity, and cost reductions of approximately 66% can be achieved using knee stiffness. We also found that constant stiffness combined with a limit on knee hyperextension produces comparable results to the physiological stiffness model without requiring complex implementation techniques. Although this study focused on the task of leg swinging, our results suggest that passive-stiffness properties could also increase the energy efficiency of walking by reducing the cost of forward leg swing by up to 66%. We also expect that the energetic cost of walking could be further reduced by adding stiffness to the ankle to assist in the propulsive portion of stance phase."
the field,minimally-actuated robots,energy efficiency,stability,the fundamental criteria,autonomy,task-performance capabilities,this paper,we,the energetic cost,leg,dynamic robots,stability,the physiological use,passive joint stiffness,we,similar efficiency improvements,dynamic walking robots,Our experimental model,a two-segment dynamically swinging robotic leg,hip and knee joints,Closed-loop control,the hip,neurally inspired, nonlinear oscillators,the legs,natural dynamics,We,the hip and knee,the knee,Our results,passive joint stiffness,one or both joints,the energy efficiency,leg,the actuator work,gravitational torque,kinetic energy transfer,the shank,thigh,Energetic cost reductions,the no-stiffness case,approximately 25%,hip stiffness,the hip actuation bias angle,gravity,cost reductions,approximately 66%,knee stiffness,We,constant stiffness,a limit,knee hyperextension,comparable results,the physiological stiffness model,complex implementation techniques,this study,the task,leg swinging,our results,passive-stiffness properties,the energy efficiency,the cost,forward leg swing,up to 66%,We,the energetic cost,stiffness,the ankle,the propulsive portion,stance phase,
In this paper, an autonomous vehicle capable of operating during large periods of time for observation and monitoring is proposed. The vehicle integrates photovoltaic panels and a methanol fuel cell, together with a neurobiological inspired control architecture for intelligent navigation In this work, the autonomy of the vehicle is evaluated in several scenarios, when the vehicle is moving in mission and when the vehicle is not moving The energetical management module generates recharge missions with a variable priority level depending on the batteries level to the mission planner The biologically inspired neural network architecture proposed for nonholonomic mobile robots makes the integration of a kinematic adaptive neuro-controller for trajectory tracking and an obstacle avoidance adaptive neuro- controller possible Copyright 0 (C) 2010 Praise Worthy Prize S.r.l. - All rights reserved.
this paper,an autonomous vehicle,large periods,time,observation,monitoring,The vehicle,photovoltaic panels,a methanol fuel cell,a neurobiological inspired control architecture,intelligent navigation,this work,the autonomy,the vehicle,several scenarios,the vehicle,mission,the vehicle,The energetical management module,recharge missions,a variable priority level,the mission planner,the batteries level to the mission planner The biologically inspired neural network architecture,nonholonomic mobile robots,the integration,a kinematic adaptive neuro-controller,trajectory tracking,an obstacle avoidance,All rights,
The brain is the most complex system we know of. Despite the wealth of data available in neuroscience, our understanding of this system is still very limited. Here we argue that an essential component in our arsenal of methods to advance our understanding of the brain is the construction of artificial brain-like systems. In this way we can encompass the multi-level organisation of the brain and its role in the context of the complete embodied real-world and real-time perceiving and behaving system. Hence, on the one hand, we must be able to develop and validate theories of brains as closing the loop between perception and action, and on the other hand as interacting with the real world. Evidence is growing that one of the sources of the computational power of neuronal systems lies in the massive and specific connectivity, rather than the complexity of single elements. To meet these challenges-multiple levels of organisation, sophisticated connectivity, and the interaction of neuronal models with the real-world-we have developed a multi-level neuronal simulation environment, iqr. This framework deals with these requirements by directly transforming them into the core elements of the simulation environment itself. iqr provides a means to design complex neuronal models graphically, and to visualise and analyse their properties on-line. In iqr connectivity is defined in a flexible, yet compact way, and simulations run at a high speed, which allows the control of real-world devices-robots in the broader sense-in real-time. The architecture of iqr is modular, providing the possibility to write new neuron, and synapse types, and custom interfaces to other hardware systems. The code of iqr is publicly accessible under the GNU General Public License (GPL). iqr has been in use since 1996 and has been the core tool for a large number of studies ranging from detailed models of neuronal systems like the cerebral cortex, and the cerebellum, to robot based models of perception, cognition and action to large-scale real-world systems. In addition, iqr has been widely used over many years to introduce students to neuronal simulation and neuromorphic control. In this paper we outline the conceptual and methodological background of iqr and its design philosophy. Thereafter we present iqr\s main features and computational properties. Finally, we describe a number of projects using iqr, singling out how iqr is used for building a "synthetic insect".
The brain,the most complex system,we,the wealth,data,neuroscience,our understanding,this system,we,an essential component,our arsenal,methods,our understanding,the brain,the construction,artificial brain-like systems,this way,we,the multi-level organisation,the brain,its role,the context,the complete embodied real-world,real-time perceiving,behaving system,the one hand,we,theories,brains,the loop,perception,action,the other hand,the real world,Evidence,the sources,the computational power,neuronal systems,the massive and specific connectivity,the complexity,single elements,these challenges,multiple levels,organisation,sophisticated connectivity,the interaction,neuronal models,real-world-we,a multi-level neuronal simulation environment,This framework,these requirements,them,the core elements,the simulation environment,iqr,a means,complex neuronal models,their properties,line,iqr connectivity,a flexible, yet compact way,simulations,a high speed,the control,real-world devices,the broader sense,real-time,The architecture,iqr,the possibility,new neuron,synapse types,custom interfaces,other hardware systems,The code,iqr,the GNU General Public License,iqr,use,the core tool,a large number,studies,detailed models,neuronal systems,the cerebral cortex,perception,cognition,action,large-scale real-world systems,addition,iqr,many years,students,neuronal simulation,neuromorphic control,this paper,we,the conceptual and methodological background,iqr,its design philosophy,we,iqr\s main features,computational properties,we,a number,projects,iqr,iqr,a "synthetic insect,
Real-time search techniques have been used extensively in the areas of task planning and decision making. In order to be effective, however, these techniques require task-specific domain knowledge in the form of heuristic or utility functions. These functions can either be embedded by the programmer, or learned by the system over time. Unfortunately, many of the reinforcement learning techniques that might be used to acquire this knowledge generally demand static feature vector representations defined a priori. Current neurobiological research offers key insights into how the cognitive processing of experience may be used to alleviate dependence on preprogrammed heuristic functions, as well as on static feature representations. Research also suggests that internal appraisals are influenced by such processing and that these appraisals integrate with the cognitive decision-making process, providing a range of useful and adaptive control signals that focus, inform, and mediate deliberation. This paper describes a neuromorphically inspired approach for cognitively processing experience in order to: 1) abstract state information; 2) learn utility functions over this state abstraction; and 3) learn to tradeoff between performance and deliberation time.
Real-time search techniques,the areas,task planning,decision making,order,these techniques,task-specific domain knowledge,the form,heuristic or utility functions,These functions,the programmer,the system,time,the reinforcement,, many of the reinforcement learning techniques,this knowledge,static feature vector representations,neurobiological research,key insights,the cognitive processing,experience,dependence,preprogrammed heuristic functions,static feature representations,Research,internal appraisals,such processing,these appraisals,the cognitive decision-making process,a range,useful and adaptive control signals,deliberation,This paper,a neuromorphically inspired approach,cognitively processing experience,order,utility functions,this state abstraction,performance,deliberation time,
This paper presents a new control approach and a dynamic model for engineered flapping flight with many interacting degrees of freedom. This paper explores the applications of neurobiologically inspired control systems in the form of central pattern generators to control flapping-flight dynamics. A rigorous mathematical and control theoretic framework to design complex three-dimensional wing motions is presented based on phase synchronization of nonlinear oscillators. In particular, we show that flapping-flying dynamics without a tail or traditional aerodynamic control surfaces can be effectively controlled by a reduced set of central pattern generator parameters that generate phase-synchronized or symmetry-breaking oscillatory motions of two main wings. Furthermore, by using Hopf bifurcation, we show that tailless aircraft alternating between flapping and gliding can be effectively stabilized by smooth wing motions driven by the central pattern generator network. Results of numerical simulation with a full six-degree-of-freedom flight dynamic model validate the effectiveness of the proposed neurobiologically inspired control approach.
This paper,a new control approach,a dynamic model,engineered flapping flight,many interacting degrees,freedom,This paper,the applications,neurobiologically inspired control systems,the form,central pattern generators,flapping-flight dynamics,A rigorous mathematical and control theoretic framework,complex three-dimensional wing motions,phase synchronization,nonlinear oscillators,we,-flying dynamics,a tail,traditional aerodynamic control surfaces,a reduced set,central pattern generator parameters,phase-synchronized or symmetry-breaking oscillatory motions,two main wings,Hopf bifurcation,we,tailless aircraft,smooth wing motions,the central pattern generator network,Results,numerical simulation,freedom,a full six-degree-of-freedom flight dynamic model,the effectiveness,the proposed neurobiologically inspired control approach,
We present the design, setup and results for a magnetic navigation system for small animal stereotactic neurosurgery. Our system tracks the position of thin (diameter 0.5 mm), magnetized ferromagnetic probes inserted into brains of small animals, e. g. rats, for electrophysiological recordings. It is used in combination with the spherical assistant for stereotactic surgery (SASSU) robot to obtain online feedback of the probes position. Navigation is based only on the static magnetic field generated by the probes thus no external excitation or wires are needed. The magnetic field created by the probe is measured by three sensors and compared to data of a previously generated lookup table. To account for overlaying magnetic fields (e. g earths field), we determine and adjust for the magnetic background. A nearest neighbor approach is used to identify the best element of the lookup table. The actual position of the probe is found using trilinear interpolation between the best element and its neighbors. To validate the system, the workspace was filled with gelatin to simulate brain-like, organic structure. Next, several positions were approached by the robot. The difference between the ground truth position and the position determined by the system was calculated. We found that the norm of the mean values are between 0.09 mm and 0.64 mm with a norm of the standard deviation between 0.52 mm and 0.80 mm. No substantial difference between gelatin and non-gelatin data was observed. Our approach allows the online validation of the probes position in X-,Y-and Z-axis. We conclude that accurate localization of small ferromagnetic objects is feasible with our system. Currently, we are working on further applications including the use in human surgery, e. g. dermatology."
We,the design,setup,results,a magnetic navigation system,small animal stereotactic neurosurgery,Our system,the position,thin (diameter,magnetized ferromagnetic probes,brains,small animals,e. g. rats,electrophysiological recordings,It,combination,stereotactic surgery,the spherical assistant for stereotactic surgery (SASSU) robot,online feedback,the probes position,Navigation,the static magnetic field,the probes,The magnetic field,the probe,three sensors,data,a previously generated lookup table,magnetic fields,we,the magnetic background,A nearest neighbor approach,the best element,the lookup table,The actual position,the probe,trilinear interpolation,the best element,its neighbors,the system,the workspace,gelatin,brain-like, organic structure,several positions,the robot,the ground truth position,the position,the system,We,the norm,the mean values,0.09 mm,0.64 mm,a norm,the standard deviation,0.52 mm,0.80 mm,No substantial difference,gelatin and non-gelatin data,Our approach,the online validation,the probes position,X-,Y,Z-axis,We,accurate localization,small ferromagnetic objects,our system,we,further applications,the use,human surgery,e. g. dermatology,
Correcting digital images tilt needs huge quantities of memory, high computational resources, and use to take a considerable amount of time. This demonstration shows how a spikes-based silicon retina dynamic vision sensor (DVS) tilt can corrected in real time using a commercial accelerometer. DVS output is a stream of spikes codified using the address-event representation (AER). Event-based processing is focused on change in real time DVS output addresses. Taking into account this DVS feature, we present an AER based layer able to correct in real time the DVS tilt, using a high speed algorithmic mapping layer and introducing a minimum latency in the system. A co-design platform (the AER-Robot platform), based into a Xilinx Spartan 3 FPGA and an 8051 USB microcontroller, has been used to implement the system.
digital images tilt,huge quantities,memory,high computational resources,a considerable amount,time,This demonstration,a spikes-based silicon retina dynamic vision sensor,tilt,real time,a commercial accelerometer,DVS output,a stream,spikes,the address-event representation,Event-based processing,change,real time,account,this DVS feature,we,an AER based layer,real time,the DVS tilt,a high speed algorithmic mapping layer,a minimum latency,the system,A co-design platform,a Xilinx Spartan 3 FPGA,an 8051 USB microcontroller,the system,
Neuromorphic engineering tries to mimic biological information processing. Address-Event-Representation (AER) is an asynchronous protocol for transferring the information of spiking neuro-inspired systems. Currently AER systems are able sense visual and auditory stimulus, to process information, to learn, to control robots, etc. In this paper we present an AER based layer able to correct in real time the tilt of an AER vision sensor, using a high speed algorithmic mapping layer. A co-design platform (the AER-Robot platform), with a Xilinx Spartan 3 FPGA and an 8051 USB microcontroller, has been used to implement the system. Testing it with the help of the USBAERmini2 board and the jAER software.
Neuromorphic engineering,biological information processing,Address-Event-Representation,an asynchronous protocol,the information,neuro-inspired systems,AER systems,sense,able sense visual and auditory stimulus,information,robots,this paper,we,an AER based layer,real time,the tilt,an AER vision sensor,a high speed algorithmic mapping layer,A co-design platform,a Xilinx Spartan 3 FPGA,an 8051 USB microcontroller,the system,it,the help,the USBAERmini2 board,the jAER software,
We propose to introduce the desire for existence, specific curiosity, diversive curiosity, and novelty into reinforcement learning as intrinsic rewards for developing truly autonomous mobile robots capable of behaving without being told what to do. A pursuit-evasion game composed of predators and their prey is selected as a testbed. Simulation experiments and experiments using real mobile robots, WITHs, on a robotic field well demonstrate the effectiveness of introducing intrinsic rewards in addition to external rewards in the conventional reinforcement learning.
We,the desire,existence,specific curiosity,diversive curiosity,novelty,reinforcement learning,intrinsic rewards,truly autonomous mobile robots,what,A pursuit-evasion game,predators,their prey,a testbed,Simulation experiments,experiments,real mobile robots,a robotic field,the effectiveness,intrinsic rewards,addition,external rewards,the conventional reinforcement learning,
Internal evaluations, motivations, contexts, goals and plans play a crucial role in the control of behavior and cognition. In this review, we argue that capable neurorobotic systems need to incorporate a flexible and dynamic architecture that supports the self-organization of value and knowledge representation by means of self-referential control. Such architecture forms an indispensable basis for the autonomous development of both simple adaptive behavior and higher cognition. We provide a brief review of empirical and theoretical work addressed in this area, outline a set of design principles for a self-organizing and open-ended knowledge architecture, and provide a strategy for its implementation in intelligent systems.
Internal evaluations,motivations,contexts,goals,plans,a crucial role,the control,behavior,cognition,this review,we,capable neurorobotic systems,a flexible and dynamic architecture,the self-organization,value,knowledge representation,means,self-referential control,Such architecture,an indispensable basis,the autonomous development,both simple adaptive behavior,higher cognition,We,a brief review,empirical and theoretical work,this area,a set,design principles,a self-organizing and open-ended knowledge architecture,a strategy,its implementation,intelligent systems,


This paper describes the HKUST MultiMap system, a hardware system we have developed to support the computation and integration of large numbers of neurally inspired feature maps at frame rates. The computed maps could serve as the basis for a generic image representation to enable robots to perform a variety of different tasks. In order to support the computation of feature representations with increasing complexity, the system can split the processing among a scalable number of processors, each on a different printed circuit board. We describe the hardware design of this board, as well as the communication protocol between different boards. Our experimental results on a four board system validate the performance of the proposed communication protocol. As an example of the applications enabled by this system, we describe a robotic binocular tracking system built by using it.
This paper,the HKUST MultiMap system,we,the computation,integration,large numbers,neurally inspired feature maps,frame rates,The computed maps,the basis,a generic image representation,robots,a variety,different tasks,order,the computation,feature representations,increasing complexity,the system,the processing,a scalable number,processors,a different printed circuit board,We,the hardware design,this board,the communication protocol,different boards,Our experimental results,a four board system,the performance,the proposed communication protocol,an example,the applications,this system,we,a robotic binocular tracking system,it,
A brain-inspired computational system is presented that allows sequential selection and processing of objects from a visual scene. The system is comprised of three modules. The selective attention module is designed as a network of spiking neurons of the Hodgkin-Huxley type with star-like connections between the central unit and peripheral elements. The attention focus is represented by those peripheral neurons that generate spikes synchronously with the central neuron while the activity of other peripheral neurons is suppressed. Such dynamics corresponds to the partial synchronization mode. It is shown that peripheral neurons with higher firing rates are preferentially drawn into partial synchronization. We show that local excitatory connections facilitate synchronization, while local inhibitory connections help distinguishing between two groups of peripheral neurons with similar intrinsic frequencies. The module automatically scans a Visual scene and sequentially selects regions of interest for detailed processing and object segmentation. The contour extraction module implements standard image processing algorithms for contour extraction. The module computes raw contours of objects accompanied by noise and some spurious inclusions. At the next stage, the object segmentation module designed as a network of phase oscillators is used for precise determination of object boundaries and noise suppression. This module has a star-like architecture of connections. The segmented object is represented by a group of peripheral oscillators working in the regime of partial synchronization with the central oscillator. The functioning of each module is illustrated by an example of processing of the visual scene taken from a visual stream of a robot camera. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
A brain-inspired computational system,sequential selection,processing,objects,a visual scene,The system,three modules,The selective attention module,a network,neurons,the Hodgkin-Huxley type,star-like connections,the central unit,peripheral elements,The attention focus,those peripheral neurons,the central neuron,the activity,other peripheral neurons,Such dynamics,the partial synchronization mode,It,peripheral neurons,higher firing rates,partial synchronization,We,local excitatory connections,synchronization,local inhibitory connections,two groups,peripheral neurons,similar intrinsic frequencies,The module,a Visual scene,sequentially,regions,interest,detailed processing and object segmentation,The contour extraction module,standard image processing algorithms,contour extraction,The module,raw contours,objects,noise,some spurious inclusions,the next stage,the object segmentation module,a network,phase,precise determination,object boundaries,noise suppression,This module,a star-like architecture,connections,The segmented object,a group,peripheral oscillators,the regime,partial synchronization,the central oscillator,The functioning,each module,an example,processing,the visual scene,a visual stream,a robot camera,All rights,
We address the development of brain-inspired models that will be embedded in robotic systems to support their cognitive abilities. We introduce a novel agent-based coevolutionary computational framework for modeling assemblies of brain areas. Specifically, self-organized agent structures are employed to represent brain areas. In order to support the design of agents, we introduce a hierarchical cooperative coevolutionary (HCCE) scheme that effectively specifies the structural details of autonomous, yet cooperating system components. The design process is facilitated by the capability of the HCCE-based design mechanism to investigate the performance of the model in lesion conditions. Interestingly, HCCE also provides a consistent mechanism to reconfigure (if necessary) the structure of agents, facilitating follow-up modeling efforts. Implemented models are embedded in a simulated robot to support its behavioral capabilities, also demonstrating the validity of the proposed computational framework.
We,the development,brain-inspired models,robotic systems,their cognitive abilities,We,a novel agent-based coevolutionary computational framework,assemblies,brain areas,self-organized agent structures,brain areas,order,the design,agents,we,a hierarchical cooperative coevolutionary (HCCE) scheme,the structural details,The design process,the capability,the HCCE-based design mechanism,the performance,the model,lesion conditions,HCCE,a consistent mechanism,the structure,agents,follow-up modeling efforts,Implemented models,a simulated robot,its behavioral capabilities,the validity,the proposed computational framework,
Recent years have seen convergence in research on brain mechanisms and neurocomputational approaches, culminating in the creation of a new generation of robots whose artificial "brains" respect neuroscience principles and whose "cognitive" systems venture into higher cognitive domains such as planning and action sequencing, complex object and concept processing, and language. The present article gives an overview of selected projects in this general multidisciplinary field. The work reviewed centres on research funded by the EU in the context of the New and Emergent Science and Technology, NEST, funding scheme highlighting the topic "What it means to be human". Examples Of Such projects include learning by imitation (Edici project), examining the origin of human rule-based reasoning (Far), studying the neural origins of language (Neurocom), exploring the evolutionary origins of the human mind (Pkb140404), researching into verbal and non-verbal communication (Refcom), using and interpreting signs (Sedsu), characterising human language by structural complexity (Chlasc), and representing abstract concepts (Abstract). Each of the communication-centred research projects revealed individual insights: however, there had been little overall analysis of results and hypotheses. In the Specific Support Action Nestcom, we proposed to analyse some NEST projects focusing on the central question "What it means to communicate" and to review, understand and integrate the results of previous Communication-related research, in order to develop and communicate multimodal experimental hypotheses for investigation by future projects. The present special issue includes a range of papers on the interplay between neuroinformatics, brain science and robotics in the general area of higher cognitive functions and multimodal communication. These papers extend talks given at the NESTCOM workshops, at ICANN (http://www.his.sunderland.ac.uk/nestcom/workshop/icann.html) in Porto and at the first meeting of the Federation of the European Societies of Neuropsychology in Edinburgh in 2008 (http://www.his.sunderland.ac.uk/nestcom/worksliop/esii.litilil). We hope that the collection will give a vivid insight into current trends in the field. Crown,Copyright (C) 2009 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Recent years,convergence,research,brain mechanisms,neurocomputational approaches,the creation,a new generation,robots,whose artificial "brains,neuroscience principles,higher cognitive domains,planning,action,sequencing,complex object,concept,processing,language,The present article,an overview,selected projects,this general multidisciplinary field,The work,centres,research,the EU,the context,New,Science,the topic,What,it,Examples,Such projects,imitation,(Edici project,the origin,human rule-based reasoning,the neural origins,language,the evolutionary origins,the human mind,verbal and non-verbal communication,signs,human language,structural complexity,abstract concepts,the communication-centred research projects,individual insights,little overall analysis,results,hypotheses,the Specific Support Action Nestcom,we,some NEST projects,the central question,What,it,the results,previous Communication-related research,order,multimodal experimental hypotheses,investigation,future projects,The present special issue,a range,papers,the interplay,neuroinformatics,brain science,robotics,the general area,higher cognitive functions,multimodal communication,These papers,talks,the NESTCOM workshops,ICANN,Porto,the first meeting,the Federation,the European Societies,Neuropsychology,Edinburgh,We,the collection,a vivid insight,current trends,the field,Elsevier Ltd.,All rights,
This paper introduces an incremental local learning algorithm inspired by learning in neurobiological systems. This algorithm has no training phase and learns the world during operation, in a lifetime manner. It is a semi-supervised algorithm which combines soft competitive learning in input space and linear regression with recursive update in output space. This method is also robust to negative interference and compromises bias-variance dilemma. These qualities make the learning method a good nonlinear function approximator having possible applications in neuro-robotic systems. Some simulations illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm in function approximation, time-series prediction, and motor control problems.
This paper,an incremental local learning algorithm,neurobiological systems,This algorithm,no training phase,the world,operation,a lifetime manner,It,a semi-supervised algorithm,soft competitive learning,input space,linear regression,recursive update,output space,This method,negative interference,bias-variance dilemma,These qualities,the learning method,possible applications,neuro-robotic systems,Some simulations,the effectiveness,the proposed algorithm,function approximation,time-series prediction,motor control problems,
This paper proposes a silicon neuron circuit which uses a slow-variable controlled leakage term to extend the repertoire of spiking patterns achievable in an integrate and fire model. The simulations reveal the potential of the circuit to provide a wide variety of neuron firing patterns observed in neocortex, including adapting and non-adapting, regular spiking, fast spiking, bursting, chattering, etc. The firing patterns of basic cell classes are obtained with a simple adjustment of four biasing voltages. The circuit operates in the sub-threshold regime, with time constants similar to biological neurons, and hence is suitable for use in systems requiring such operating speeds. Envisaged applications of the proposed circuit are in large-scale analogue VLSI systems for spiking neural network simulations, brain-inspired circuits for robotics and hybrid silicon/biology systems.
This paper,a silicon neuron circuit,a slow-variable controlled leakage term,the repertoire,spiking patterns,an integrate,fire model,The simulations,the potential,the circuit,a wide variety,neuron firing patterns,neocortex,regular spiking,fast spiking,The firing patterns,basic cell classes,a simple adjustment,four biasing voltages,The circuit,the sub-threshold regime,time constants,biological neurons,use,systems,such operating speeds,applications,the proposed circuit,large-scale analogue VLSI systems,neural network simulations,brain-inspired circuits,robotics,hybrid silicon/biology systems,
To develop truly autonomous mobile robots, we proposed to introduce internal rewards such as the desire for existence, specific curiosity, diversive Curiosity, boredom, and novelty into reinforcement learning. They are expected to make mobile robots capable of behaving appropriately without being told what to do. Firstly, we proposed to use multiple Sources of rewards to endow mobile robots with ability to behave properly in the real world. Secondly, we proposed task-independent internal rewards. Thirdly, we proposed to attain engineering merit of internal rewards in addition to scientific interest. A pursuit-evasion game comprising a predator and its prey on a robotic field was selected as a testbed to demonstrate the effectiveness of internal rewards in reinforcement learning. The present paper focuses on learning of pursuit timing to maximize accumulated future rewards by Q-learning and SARSA.
truly autonomous mobile robots,we,internal rewards,the desire,existence,specific curiosity,diversive Curiosity,boredom,novelty,reinforcement learning,They,mobile robots,what,we,multiple Sources,rewards,mobile robots,ability,the real world,we,task-independent internal rewards,we,engineering merit,internal rewards,addition,scientific interest,A pursuit-evasion game,a predator,its prey,a robotic field,a testbed,the effectiveness,internal rewards,reinforcement learning,The present paper,learning,pursuit timing,accumulated future rewards,Q-learning,
One field of the neuroscience is the neuroinformatic whose aim is to develop auto-reconfigurable systems that mimic the human body and brain. In this paper we present a neuro-inspired spike based mobile robot. From commercial cheap vision sensors converted into spike information, through spike filtering for object recognition, to spike based motor control models. A two wheel mobile robot powered by DC motors can be autonomously controlled to follow a line drown in the floor. This spike system has been developed around the well-known Address-Event-Representation mechanism to communicate the different neuro-inspired layers of the system. RTC lab has developed all the components presented in this work, from the vision sensor, to the robot platform and the FPGA based platforms for AER processing.
One field,the neuroscience,whose aim,auto-reconfigurable systems,the human body,brain,this paper,we,a neuro-inspired spike,based mobile robot,commercial cheap vision sensors,spike information,spike,object recognition,based motor control models,A two wheel mobile robot,DC motors,a line,the floor,This spike system,the well-known Address-Event-Representation mechanism,the different neuro-inspired layers,the system,RTC lab,all the components,this work,the vision sensor,the robot platform,the FPGA,platforms,AER processing,
Traditionally in robotics artificial intelligence, and neuroscience, there has been a focus oil the study of the control or the neural system itself. Recently there has been an increasing interest in the notion of embodiment, not only in robotics and artificial intelligence. but also in neuroscience, psychology, and philosophy. In this paper(1), we introduce the notion of morphological computation and demonstrate how it can be exploited on the one hand for designing intelligent, adaptive robotic systems, and on the other for understanding natural systems. While embodiment has often been used ill its trivial i.e. "Intelligence requires a body", the concept has deeper and more important implications, concerned with the relation between physical and information (neural, Control) processes. Morphological Computation is about connecting body. brain and environment. A number of case studies are presented to illustrate the concept. We conclude with some speculations about potential lessons for neuroscience and robotics, in particular for building brain-like intelligence, mid we present a theoretical scheme that call be used to embed the diverse case studies.
robotics artificial intelligence,neuroscience,a focus oil,the study,the control,the neural system,an increasing interest,the notion,embodiment,robotics,artificial intelligence,neuroscience,psychology,philosophy,this paper(1,we,the notion,morphological computation,it,the one hand,intelligent, adaptive robotic systems,natural systems,embodiment,Intelligence,a body,the concept,deeper and more important implications,the relation,Control,physical and information (neural, Control) processes,Morphological Computation,body,A number,case studies,the concept,We,some speculations,potential lessons,neuroscience,robotics,brain-like intelligence,we,a theoretical scheme,the diverse case studies,
Brain-like behavior is intimately connected with the ability to actively manage a rich set of interactions with the environment. Originating with very simple movements in homogeneous domains, the gradual evolution of movement Sophistication endowed animals with an increasing ability to control their environment, Ultimately advancing from the physical into the mental object domain with the advent of language-based communication and thinking. Appearing at the high complexity end of the physical movement evolution ladder, the ability of dextrous manipulation seems in the role of a "transition technology", leading from movement, control into the mental capabilities of language use and thinking. We therefore argue that manual actions and their replication in robots are positioned as a "Rosetta stone" for understanding cognition. Using the example of grasping, we contrast the, "clockwork building style" of traditional engineering with more holistic biologically inspired solutions for grasp synthesis and discuss the potential of the research field of, "Manual Intelligence" and it\s speculative connections With language for making progress towards robots with more brain-like behavior.
Brain-like behavior,the ability,a rich set,interactions,the environment,very simple movements,homogeneous domains,the gradual evolution,movement,Sophistication,animals,an increasing ability,their environment,the mental object domain,the advent,language-based communication,thinking,the high complexity end,the physical movement evolution ladder,the ability,dextrous manipulation,the role,a "transition technology,movement,the mental capabilities,language use,We,manual actions,their replication,robots,a "Rosetta stone,cognition,the example,we,the, "clockwork building style,traditional engineering,more holistic biologically inspired solutions,grasp synthesis,the potential,the research field,language,progress,robots,more brain-like behavior,
A prerequisite for achieving brain-like intelligence is the ability to rapidly learn new behaviors and actions. A fundamental mechanism for rapid learning in humans is imitation: children routinely learn new skills (e.g., opening a door or tying a shoe lace) by imitating their parents; adults continue to learn by imitating skilled instructors (e.g., in tennis). In this chapter, we propose a probabilistic framework for imitation learning in robots that is inspired by how humans learn from imitation and exploration. Rather than relying on complex (and often brittle) physics-based models, the robot learns a dynamic Bayesian network that captures its dynamics directly in terms of sensor measurements and actions during an imitation-guided exploration phase. After learning, actions are selected based on probabilistic inference in the learned Bayesian network. We present results demonstrating that a 25-degree-of-freedom humanoid robot can learn dynamically stable, full-body imitative motions simply by observing a human demonstrator.
A prerequisite,brain-like intelligence,the ability,new behaviors,actions,A fundamental mechanism,rapid learning,humans,imitation,children,new skills,a door,a shoe lace,their parents,adults,skilled instructors,tennis,this chapter,we,a probabilistic framework,imitation learning,robots,humans,imitation,exploration,complex (and often brittle) physics-based models,the robot,a dynamic Bayesian network,its dynamics,terms,sensor measurements,actions,an imitation-guided exploration phase,actions,probabilistic inference,the learned Bayesian network,We,results,freedom humanoid robot,dynamically stable, full-body imitative motions,a human demonstrator,
A variety of disciplines have dealt with the design of intelligent algorithms - among them Artificial Intelligence and Robotics. While some approaches were very successful and have yielded promising results, others have failed to do so which was - at least partly - due to inadequate architectures and algorithms that were not suited to mimic the behavior of biological intelligence. Therefore. in recent, years, a quest for "brain-like" intelligence has arosen. Soft- mid hardware are supposed to behave like biological brains - ideally like the human brain. This raises the questions of what exactly defines the attribute "brain-like", how can the attribute be implemented and how tested. This chapter suggests the concept of cognitive adequacy in order to get, a rough estimate of how "brain-like" an algorithm behaves.
A variety,disciplines,the design,intelligent algorithms,them,some approaches,promising results,others,inadequate architectures,algorithms,the behavior,biological intelligence,recent, years,a quest,intelligence,mid hardware,biological brains,the human brain,the questions,what,the attribute,the attribute,This chapter,the concept,cognitive adequacy,order,a rough estimate," an algorithm,
Therapy incorporating the repeated practice of motor tasks has been found to enhance motor function after stroke. This type of therapy may be facilitated by robotic devices and several such devices are being developed for use in rehabilitation. The Myomo e100 NeuroRobotic system is a novel device developed to provide assistance during elbow movements in stroke survivors. The device uses surface electromyographic signals to control a powered elbow orthosis. Data from a pilot study reveals that the device can be used successfully by stroke survivors and suggests that it may be effective in helping to restore motor control after stroke. Further studies are needed to confirm these preliminary results.
Therapy,the repeated practice,motor tasks,motor function,stroke,This type,therapy,robotic devices,several such devices,use,rehabilitation,The Myomo e100 NeuroRobotic system,a novel device,assistance,elbow movements,stroke survivors,The device,surface electromyographic signals,a powered elbow orthosis,Data,a pilot study,the device,stroke survivors,it,motor control,stroke,Further studies,these preliminary results,
This paper provides some insights related to building a working computational model of human-level mind. We propose to take a fresh look at some ideas propounded more than a century ago by William James and Sigmund Freud, which were recently reconsidered by Peter Naur and ATR Brain-Building Group, respectively. Naur proposes his Synapse-State Theory of Human Mind (SST), while the research at ATR resulted in the Machine Psychodynamic paradigm (MTD). We argue that SST and MTD propose complementary ideas about implementation of mental functionalities, including those related to the quest of consciousness. The 20(th)-century AI gave machine the ability to learn. The great challenge in the 2 century AI is to make a robot actually want to learn. MTD proposes a solution based on pleasure defined as a measurable quantity to be used as a general reinforcement. SST proposes a neuroscience-inspired architecture, where the key blocks are item-nodes, attention-node, and specious-present excitation. MTD may supplement SST with a pleasure node and related Pleasure Principle.
This paper,some insights,a working computational model,human-level mind,We,a fresh look,some ideas,William James,Peter Naur,Naur,his Synapse-State Theory,Human Mind,the research,ATR,the Machine Psychodynamic paradigm,We,SST,complementary ideas,implementation,mental functionalities,the quest,consciousness,The 20(th)-century AI,the ability,The great challenge,the 2 century AI,a robot,MTD,a solution,pleasure,a measurable quantity,a general reinforcement,SST,a neuroscience-inspired architecture,the key blocks,item-nodes,attention-node,specious-present excitation,MTD,SST,a pleasure node,
Intelligence is a technology and a strategy for robust and flexible problem solving in complex environments (both natural and artificial) under the constraints of limited resources (e.g. time, energy). The need for intelligence becomes particularly visible when dealing with humanoid robots which are expected to behave like humans and which are in reality still much closer to their ancestors at the assembly line. Understanding essential principles of how the brain organizes behavior may enable us to provide our technical artifacts at least with some aspects of brain-like intelligence. Our approach is based on the assumption that the essence of computing in the brain does not lie in the local processing or learning algorithm but in the way the brain organizes processing.
Intelligence,a technology,a strategy,robust and flexible problem,complex environments,the constraints,limited resources,The need,humanoid robots,humans,reality,their ancestors,the assembly line,essential principles,the brain,behavior,us,our technical artifacts,some aspects,brain-like intelligence,Our approach,the assumption,the essence,computing,the brain,the local processing,algorithm,the way,the brain,processing,


In this chapter we provide mathematical models for a general memory structure and for sensory-motor control via perception, detailing on some of the Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) introduced in Chapter 4. In the first section we study how individual memory items are stored assuming that situations given in the environment can be represented in the form of synaptic-like couplings in recurrent neural networks (RNN). We provide a theoretical basis concerning the learning process convergence and the network response to novel stimuli. We show that a nD network can learn static and dynamic patterns and can also replicate a sequence of up to different vectors or frames. Such networks can also perform arithmetic calculations by means of pattern completion. In the second section we introduce a robot platform including the simplest probabilistic sensory and motor layers. Then we use the platform as a test-bed for evaluating the capabilities of robot navigation with different neural networks. We show that the basic robot element, the short-time memory, is the key element in obstacle avoidance. However, in the simplest conditions of no obstacles the straightforward memoryless robot is usually superior in performance. Accordingly, we suggest that small organisms (or agents) with short life-time do not require complex brains and even can benefit from simple brain-like (reflex) structures. In section 3 we propose a memotaxis strategy for target searching, which requires minimal computational resources and can be easily implemented in hardware. The strategy makes use of a dynamical system modeling short time memory which "collects" information on successful steps and corrects decisions made by a gradient strategy. Thus a memotactic robot can take steps against the chemotactic-like sensory gradient. We show (theoretically and experimentally) that the memotaxis strategy effectively suppresses stochasticity observed in the behavior of chemotactic robots in the region of low SNR and provides from 50 to 200% performance gain.
this chapter,we,mathematical models,a general memory structure,sensory-motor control,perception,the Recurrent Neural Networks,Chapter,the first section,we,individual memory items,situations,the environment,the form,synaptic-like couplings,recurrent neural networks,We,a theoretical basis,the learning process convergence,the network response,novel stimuli,We,a nD network,static and dynamic patterns,a sequence,up to different vectors,frames,Such networks,arithmetic calculations,means,pattern completion,the second section,we,a robot platform,the simplest probabilistic sensory and motor layers,we,the platform,a test-bed,the capabilities,robot navigation,different neural networks,We,the basic robot element,the key element,obstacle avoidance,the simplest conditions,no obstacles,the straightforward memoryless robot,performance,we,small organisms,agents,short life-time,complex brains,simple brain-like (reflex) structures,section,we,a memotaxis strategy,target searching,minimal computational resources,hardware,The strategy,use,a dynamical system,short time memory," information,successful steps,decisions,a gradient strategy,a memotactic robot,steps,the chemotactic-like sensory gradient,We,the memotaxis strategy,stochasticity,the behavior,chemotactic robots,the region,low SNR,200% performance gain,
Recently, many brain-inspired models have been used in attempts to support the cognitive abilities of artificial organisms. In this article, we introduce a computational framework to facilitate these efforts, emphasizing the cooperative performance of brain substructures. Specifically, we introduce an agent-based representation of brain areas, together with a hierarchical cooperative co-evolutionary design mechanism. The proposed methodology is capable of designing biologically inspired cognitive systems, considering both the specialties of brain areas and their cooperative performance. The effectiveness of the proposed approach is demonstrated by designing a brain-inspired model of working memory usage. The co-evolutionary scheme enforces the cooperation of agents representing the involved brain areas, facilitating the accomplishment of two different tasks by the same model. Furthermore, we investigate the performance of the model in lesion conditions, highlighting the distinct roles of agents representing brain areas. The implemented model is embedded in a simulated robotic platform to support its cognitive and behavioral capabilities.
many brain-inspired models,attempts,the cognitive abilities,artificial organisms,this article,we,a computational framework,these efforts,the cooperative performance,brain substructures,we,an agent-based representation,brain areas,a hierarchical cooperative co-evolutionary design mechanism,The proposed methodology,cognitive systems,both the specialties,brain areas,their cooperative performance,The effectiveness,the proposed approach,a brain-inspired model,working memory usage,The co-evolutionary scheme,the cooperation,agents,the involved brain areas,the accomplishment,two different tasks,the same model,we,the performance,the model,lesion conditions,the distinct roles,agents,brain areas,The implemented model,a simulated robotic platform,its cognitive and behavioral capabilities,
The current paper examines how compositional structures can self-organize in given neuro-dynamical systems when robot agents are forced to learn multiple goal-directed behaviors simultaneously. Firstly, we propose a basic model accounting for the roles of parietal-premotor interactions for representing skills for goal-directed behaviors. The basic model had been implemented in a set of robotics experiments employing different neural network architectures. The comparative reviews among those experimental results address the issues of local vs distributed representations in representing behavior and the effectiveness of level structures associated with different sensory-motor articulation mechanisms. It is concluded that the compositional structures can be acquired "organically" by achieving generalization in learning and by capturing the contextual nature of skilled behaviors under specific conditions. Furthermore, the paper discusses possible feedback for empirical neuroscience studies in the future. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The current paper,compositional structures,given neuro-dynamical systems,robot agents,multiple goal-directed behaviors,we,a basic model accounting,the roles,parietal-premotor interactions,skills,goal-directed behaviors,The basic model,a set,robotics experiments,different neural network architectures,The comparative reviews,those experimental results,the issues,local vs distributed representations,behavior,the effectiveness,level structures,different sensory-motor articulation mechanisms,It,the compositional structures,generalization,the contextual nature,skilled behaviors,specific conditions,the paper,possible feedback,empirical neuroscience studies,the future,All rights,
Neurons engage in causal interactions with one another and with the surrounding body and environment. Neural systems can therefore be analyzed in terms of causal networks, without assumptions about information processing, neural coding, and the like. Here, we review a series of studies analyzing causal networks in simulated neural systems using a combination of Granger causality analysis and graph theory. Analysis of a simple target-fixation model shows that causal networks provide intuitive representations of neural dynamics during behavior which can be validated by lesion experiments. Extension of the approach to a neurorobotic model of the hippocampus and surrounding areas identifies shifting causal pathways during learning of a spatial navigation task. Analysis of causal interactions at the population level in the model shows that behavioral learning is accompanied by selection of specific causal pathways-"causal cores"-from among large and variable repertoires of neuronal interactions. Finally, we argue that a causal network perspective may be useful for characterizing the complex neural dynamics underlying consciousness.
Neurons,causal interactions,the surrounding body,environment,Neural systems,terms,causal networks,assumptions,information processing,neural coding,we,a series,studies,causal networks,simulated neural systems,a combination,Granger causality analysis,graph theory,Analysis,a simple target-fixation model,causal networks,intuitive representations,neural dynamics,behavior,lesion experiments,Extension,the approach,a neurorobotic model,the hippocampus,surrounding areas,causal pathways,learning,a spatial navigation task,Analysis,causal interactions,the population level,the model,behavioral learning,selection,specific causal pathways-"causal cores"-from,large and variable repertoires,neuronal interactions,we,a causal network perspective,the complex neural dynamics,underlying consciousness,
In this paper, we describe the principles and the methodologies that we have researched for the creation of a software infrastructure for bridging the gap from brain-like systems design to standard software technology. Looking at the brain, we constantly take inspiration and choose the relevant principles that our computer-base model should/could be based on. This ranges from the evolution of the brain (phylogenetically and ontogenetically), the inherent autonomy of the currently identified areas, the intrinsic synchronization through the most basic control mechanisms that regulates interaction, communication, and modulation. With these principles in mind, we started to make a subdivision of our system into instance, functional and computing architecture, modeling each sub-system with processes and tools in order to create a basic infrastructure that supports the research and creation of intelligent systems. The basic elements of our infrastructure are the BBCM (Brain Bytes Component Model) and BBDM (Brain Bytes Data Model), created to enable the modularization and reuse of our systems. Based on those, we have developed DTBOS (Design Tool for Brain Operating System), the design environment for supporting graphical design, RTBOS (Real-Time Brain Operating System), the middleware that supports real-time execution of our modular systems, and CMBOS (Control-Monitor Brain Operating System) to enable the monitoring of running modules. We will show the feasibility of the established environment by shortly describing some of the experimental systems in the area of cognitive robotics that we have created. This will serve to give a more concrete understanding of the dimensions and the type of systems that we have been able to create. (c) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
this paper,we,the principles,the methodologies,we,the creation,a software infrastructure,the gap,brain-like systems design,standard software technology,the brain,we,inspiration,the relevant principles,our computer-base model,the evolution,the brain,the inherent autonomy,the currently identified areas,the most basic control mechanisms,interaction,communication,modulation,these principles,mind,we,a subdivision,our system,instance,functional and computing architecture,each sub-system,processes,tools,order,a basic infrastructure,the research,creation,intelligent systems,The basic elements,our infrastructure,the BBCM,the modularization,reuse,our systems,we,DTBOS,Brain Operating System,graphical design,real-time execution,our modular systems,Control-Monitor,the monitoring,running modules,We,the feasibility,the established environment,the experimental systems,the area,cognitive robotics,we,a more concrete understanding,the dimensions,the type,systems,we,All rights,
Dynamic data-driven brain-machine interfaces (DDDBMI) have great potential to advance the understanding of neural systems and improve the design of brain-inspired rehabilitative systems. This paper presents a novel cyberinfrastructure that couples in vivo neurophysiology experimentation with massive computational resources to provide seamless and efficient support of DDDBMI research. Closed-loop experiments can be conducted with in vivo data acquisition, reliable network transfer, parallel model computation, and real-time robot control. Behavioral experiments with live animals are supported with real-time guarantees. Offline studies can be performed with various configurations for extensive analysis and training. A Web-based portal is also provided to allow users to conveniently interact with the cyberinfrastructure, conducting both experimentation and analysis. New motor control models are developed based on this approach, which include recursive least square based (RLS) and reinforcement learning based (RLBMI) algorithms. The results from an online RLBMI experiment shows that the cyberinfrastructure can successfully support DDDBMI experiments and meet the desired real-time requirements.
Dynamic data-driven brain-machine interfaces,great potential,the understanding,neural systems,the design,brain-inspired rehabilitative systems,This paper,a novel cyberinfrastructure,couples,vivo neurophysiology experimentation,massive computational resources,seamless and efficient support,DDDBMI research,Closed-loop experiments,vivo data acquisition,reliable network transfer,parallel model computation,real-time robot control,Behavioral experiments,live animals,real-time guarantees,Offline studies,various configurations,extensive analysis,training,A Web-based portal,users,the cyberinfrastructure,both experimentation,analysis,New motor control models,this approach,recursive least square based (RLS) and reinforcement learning,The results,an online RLBMI experiment,the cyberinfrastructure,DDDBMI experiments,the desired real-time requirements,
Humanoids are steadily improving in appearance and functionality demonstrated in controlled environments. To address the challenges of operation in the real-world, researchers have proposed the use of brain-inspired architectures for robot control, and the use of robot learning techniques that enable the robot to acquire and tune skills and behaviours. In the first part of the paper we introduce new concepts and results in these two areas. First, we present a cerebellum-inspired model that demonstrated efficiency in the sensory-motor control of anthropomorphic arms, and in gait control of dynamic walkers. Then, we present a set of new ideas related to robot learning, emphasizing the importance of developing teaching techniques that support learning. In the second part of the paper we propose the use in robotics of the iterative and incremental development methodologies, in the context of practical task-oriented applications. These methodologies promise to rapidly reach system-level integration, and to early identify system-level weaknesses to focus on. We apply this methodology in a task targeting the automated assembly of a modular structure using HOAP-2. We confirm this approach led to rapid development of a end-to-end capability, and offered guidance on which technologies to focus on for gradual improvement of a complete functional system. It is believed that providing Grand Challenge type milestones in practical task-oriented applications accelerates development. As a meaningful target in short-mid term we propose the IKEA Challenge, aimed at the demonstration of autonomous assembly of various pieces of furniture, from the box, following included written/drawn instructions."
Humanoids,appearance,functionality,controlled environments,the challenges,operation,the real-world,researchers,the use,brain-inspired architectures,robot control,the use,robot learning techniques,the robot,skills,behaviours,the first part,the paper,we,new concepts,results,these two areas,we,a cerebellum-inspired model,efficiency,the sensory-motor control,anthropomorphic arms,gait control,dynamic walkers,we,a set,new ideas,robot learning,the importance,teaching techniques,the second part,the paper,we,the use,robotics,the iterative and incremental development methodologies,the context,practical task-oriented applications,These methodologies,system-level integration,system-level weaknesses,We,this methodology,a task,the automated assembly,a modular structure,HOAP-2,We,this approach,rapid development,end,a end-to-end capability,guidance,technologies,gradual improvement,a complete functional system,It,Grand Challenge type milestones,practical task-oriented applications,development,a meaningful target,short-mid term,we,the IKEA Challenge,the demonstration,autonomous assembly,various pieces,furniture,the box,included written/drawn instructions,
This paper provides a new insight into the possibility of building a plausible computational model of human mind. We take a fresh look at some ideas propounded more than a century ago by William James and Sigmund Freud, which have been re-considered recently by Peter Naur and the ATR Brain-Building Group, respectively. Naur proposes his Synapse-State Theory of Human Mind (SST), while the research at ATR resulted in the Machine Psychodynamic (MIPD) paradigm. We argue that SST and M Psi D propose complementary ideas about implementation of mental functionalities, including those related to the quest for consciousness. The 20(th) -century AI gave machine the ability to learn. The great challenge for the 21(th)-century AI is to make a robot actually want to learn. M Psi D proposes " solution based on the notion of pleasure defined as " measurable quantity to be used as a general reinforcer. SST proposes a neuroscience-inspired architecture, where the key blocks are item-nodes, attention-node, and specious-present excitation. M Psi D potentially supplements SST with a pleasure node and related pleasure principle.
This paper,a new insight,the possibility,a plausible computational model,human mind,We,a fresh look,some ideas,William James,Peter Naur,Naur,his Synapse-State Theory,Human Mind,the research,ATR,the Machine Psychodynamic (MIPD) paradigm,We,SST,complementary ideas,implementation,mental functionalities,the quest,consciousness,-century AI,the ability,The great challenge,the 21(th)-century AI,a robot,M Psi D," solution,the notion,pleasure,measurable quantity,a general reinforcer,SST,a neuroscience-inspired architecture,the key blocks,item-nodes,attention-node,specious-present excitation,M Psi D,SST,a pleasure node,related pleasure principle,
A novel wake-sleep learning architecture for processing a robots facial expressions is introduced. According to neuroscience evidence, associative learning of emotional responses and facial expressions occurs in the brain in the amygdala. Here we propose an architecture inspired by how the amygdala receives information from other areas of the brain to discriminate it and generate innate responses. The architecture is composed of many individual Helmholtz machines using the wake-sleep learning algorithm for performing information transformation and recognition. The Helmholtz machine is used since its re-entrant connections support both supervised and unsupervised learning. Potentially it can explain some aspects of human learning of emotional concepts and experience. In this research, a robotic heads facial expression dataset is used. The objective of this learning architecture is to demonstrate the neural basis for the association of recognized facial expressions and linguistic emotion labels. It implies the understanding of emotions from observation and is further used to generate facial expressions. In contrast with other facial expression recognition research, this work concentrates more on emotional information processing and neural concept development, rather than a technical recognition task. This approach has a lot of potential to contribute towards neurally inspired emotional experience in robotic systems."
A novel wake-sleep learning architecture,a robots,facial expressions,neuroscience evidence,associative learning,emotional responses,facial expressions,the brain,the amygdala,we,an architecture,the amygdala,information,other areas,the brain,it,innate responses,The architecture,many individual Helmholtz machines,the wake-sleep learning algorithm,information transformation,recognition,The Helmholtz machine,its re-entrant connections,unsupervised learning,it,some aspects,human learning,emotional concepts,experience,this research,, a robotic heads,facial expression dataset,The objective,this learning architecture,the neural basis,the association,recognized facial expressions,linguistic emotion labels,It,the understanding,emotions,observation,facial expressions,contrast,other facial expression recognition research,this work,emotional information processing and neural concept development,a technical recognition task,This approach,a lot,neurally inspired emotional experience,robotic systems,
Brain-robot interface (BRI) has been a growing field of innovative research and development in cognitive neuroscience and brain bioimaging processing technologies. In this paper we endeavor to explore how medical robotics and neurorobotic prosthetics can be controlled by Brain-Robot Interfaces and RFID (Radio Frequency Identification) technologies, directly using brain signals obtained non-invasively from the scalp through electroencephalography (EEG) in order to assist disabled patients to ameliorate their everyday lives. There is a general consensus that computational visualizations and interfaces are proliferating in every aspect of medical practice, prompted from the current trends in telemedicine. The main focus of the study is on architectures of Brain-robot interfaces for communication and control using one specific modality, namely electroencephalography (EEG), alpha (a) wave-based BRI with an emphasis on biosignal processing aspects. The main motivation for the application of such scientific methods is the development of an alternative communication and control means for severely disabled people, focusing in replacing total voluntary muscle control using robotic prosthetics. The substantial goal is to demonstrate that an EEG-based brain-robot interface can be used for sophisticated robotic interaction with the environment, involving not only navigation as in previous applications but also manipulation and transport of objects. Visualization of brain electrical activity and BRI technology, by their intimate connection with the wonder of human thought processes, are a fascinating research field, that has demonstrated the unprecedented ability of direct information transfer from the brain to medical robots or robotic prosthetics. Inclusion of a BRI in a multimodal interface thus results in a net gain of information transfer capability that alters the standards in medical robotics.
Brain-robot interface,a growing field,innovative research,development,cognitive neuroscience,brain bioimaging processing technologies,this paper,we,medical robotics,neurorobotic prosthetics,Brain-Robot Interfaces,technologies,brain signals,the scalp,electroencephalography,order,disabled patients,their everyday lives,a general consensus,computational visualizations,interfaces,every aspect,medical practice,the current trends,telemedicine,The main focus,the study,architectures,Brain-robot interfaces,communication,control,one specific modality,an emphasis,biosignal processing aspects,The main motivation,the application,such scientific methods,the development,an alternative communication,control,severely disabled people,total voluntary muscle control,robotic prosthetics,The substantial goal,an EEG-based brain-robot interface,sophisticated robotic interaction,the environment,not only navigation,previous applications,objects,Visualization,brain electrical activity,BRI technology,their intimate connection,the wonder,human thought processes,a fascinating research field,the unprecedented ability,direct information transfer,the brain,medical robots,robotic prosthetics,Inclusion,a BRI,a multimodal interface,a net gain,information transfer capability,the standards,medical robotics,
In recent years, advances and improvements in engineering and robotics have in part been due to strengthened interactions with the biological sciences. Robots that mimic the complexity and adaptability of biological systems have become a central goal in research and development in robotics. Usually, such a collaboration is addressed to a 2-fold perspective of (i) setting up anthropomorphic platforms as test beds for studies in neuroscience and (ii) promoting new mechatronic and robotic technologies for the development of bio-inspired or humanoid high-performance robotic platforms. This paper provides a brief overview of recent studies on sensorimotor coordination in human motor control and proposes a novel paradigm of adaptive learning for sensorimotor control, based on a multi-network high-level control architecture. The proposed neurobiologically inspired model has been applied to a robotic platform, purposely designed to provide anthropomorphic solutions to neuroscientific requirements. The goal of this work is to use the bio-inspired robotic platform as a test bed for validating the proposed model of high-level sensorimotor control, with the aim of demonstrating adaptive and modular control based on acquired competences, with a higher degree of flexibility and generality than conventional robotic controllers, while preserving their robustness. To this purpose, a set of object-dependent, visually guided reach-and-grasp tasks and the associated training phases were first implemented in a multi-network control architecture in simulation. Subsequently, the offline learning realized in simulation was used to produce the input command of reach-and-grasp to the low-level position control of the robotic platform. Experimental trials demonstrated that the adaptive and modular high-level control allowed reaching and grasping of objects located at different positions and objects of variable size, shape and orientation. A future goal would be to address autonomous and progressive learning based on growing competences. (C) Koninklijke Brill NV, Leiden and The Robotics Society of Japan, 2008.
recent years,advances,improvements,engineering,robotics,part,strengthened interactions,the biological sciences,Robots,the complexity,adaptability,biological systems,a central goal,research,development,robotics,such a collaboration,a 2-fold perspective,anthropomorphic platforms,test beds,studies,neuroscience,new mechatronic,robotic technologies,the development,bio-inspired or humanoid high-performance robotic platforms,This paper,a brief overview,recent studies,sensorimotor coordination,human motor control,a novel paradigm,adaptive learning,sensorimotor control,a multi-network high-level control architecture,The proposed neurobiologically inspired model,a robotic platform,anthropomorphic solutions,neuroscientific requirements,The goal,this work,the bio-inspired robotic platform,a test bed,the proposed model,high-level sensorimotor control,the aim,adaptive and modular control,acquired competences,a higher degree,flexibility,generality,conventional robotic controllers,their robustness,this purpose,a set,object-dependent, visually guided reach-and-grasp tasks,the associated training phases,a multi-network control architecture,simulation,simulation,the input command,reach,-grasp,the low-level position control,the robotic platform,Experimental trials,the adaptive and modular high-level control,objects,different positions,objects,variable size,shape,orientation,A future goal,autonomous and progressive learning,growing competences,C,Japan,


RF/IR wireless (virtual) synapses are critical components of HYDRA (Hyper-Distributed Robotic Autonomy) neural networks, already discussed in two earlier papers. The HYDRA network has the potential to be very large, up to 10(11)-neurons and 10(18)-synapses, based on already established technologies (cellular RF telephony and IR-wireless LANs). It is organized into almost fully connected IR-wireless clusters. The HYDRA neurons and synapses are very flexible, simple, and low-cost. They can be modified into a broad variety of biologically-inspired brain-like computing capabilities. In this third paper, we focus on neural hardware in general, and on IR-wireless synapses in particular. Such synapses, based on LED/LD-connections, dominate the HYDRA neural cluster.
RF/IR wireless,critical components,HYDRA (Hyper-Distributed Robotic Autonomy) neural networks,two earlier papers,The HYDRA network,the potential,10(11)-neurons,10(18)-synapses,already established technologies,It,almost fully connected IR-wireless clusters,The HYDRA neurons,synapses,They,a broad variety,biologically-inspired brain-like computing capabilities,this third paper,we,neural hardware,IR-wireless synapses,Such synapses,LED/LD-connections,the HYDRA neural cluster,
Address-Event-Representation (AER) is an asynchronous protocol for transferring the information of spiking neuro-inspired systems. Actually AER systems are able to see, to ear, to process information, and to learn. Regarding to the actuation step, the AER has been used for implementing Central Pattern Generator algorithms, but not for controlling the actuators in a closed-loop spike-based way. In this paper we analyze an AER based model for a real-time neuro-inspired closed-loop control system. We demonstrate it into a differential control system for a two-wheel vehicle using feedback AER information. PFM modulation has been used to power the DC motors of the vehicle and translation into AER of encoder information is also presented for the close-loop. A codesign platform (called AER-Robot), based into a Xilinx Spartan 3 FPGA and an 8051 USB microcontroller, with power stages for four DC motors has been used for the demonstrator.
Address-Event-Representation,an asynchronous protocol,the information,neuro-inspired systems,AER systems,information,the actuation step,the AER,Central Pattern Generator algorithms,the actuators,a closed-loop spike-based way,this paper,we,an AER based model,a real-time neuro-inspired closed-loop control system,We,it,a differential control system,a two-wheel vehicle,feedback AER information,PFM modulation,the DC motors,the vehicle,translation,AER,encoder information,the close-loop,A codesign platform,a Xilinx Spartan 3 FPGA,power stages,four DC motors,the demonstrator,
A new neural computational scheme of unsupervised learning is proposed to construct a machine intelligence that is capable of overcoming unpredictable uncertainties and unknowns through proper interactions with environment. Our scheme consists of homogeneous neuron distributions which form layered clusters of computational circuit. Each neuron is very simple and of classical McCulloch-Pitts type equipped with Hebb-type plasticity for their interconnections. The novelty of our neuron lies in its ability to change its threshold according to its firing situation, which makes our scheme stable and configurable. Each cluster of neurons represents the numerical values by the number of firing neurons just like enumerations by fingers. This non-symbolic nature of computations is shown to be very robust. It is shown that our configuration can act as a type of adaptive control which exhibits brain-like functions in its learning behaviors. Our scheme is shown to be successfully implemented to a biped robot that can walk under unstructured environment.
A new neural computational scheme,unsupervised learning,a machine intelligence,unpredictable uncertainties,unknowns,proper interactions,environment,Our scheme,homogeneous neuron distributions,layered clusters,computational circuit,Each neuron,classical McCulloch-Pitts type,Hebb-type plasticity,their interconnections,The novelty,our neuron,its ability,its threshold,its firing situation,our scheme,Each cluster,neurons,the numerical values,the number,firing neurons,enumerations,fingers,This non-symbolic nature,computations,It,our configuration,a type,adaptive control,brain-like functions,its learning behaviors,Our scheme,a biped robot,unstructured environment,
In this paper, a binaural sound source lateralization spiking neural network (NN) will be presented which is inspired by most recent neurophysiological studies on the role of certain nuclei in the superior olivary complex (SOC) and the inferior colliculus (IC). The binaural sound source lateralization neural network (BiSoLaNN) is a spiking NN based on neural mechanisms, utilizing complex neural models, and attempting to simulate certain parts of nuclei of the auditory system in detail. The BiSoLaNN utilizes both excitatory and inhibitory ipsilateral and contralateral influences arrayed in only one delay line originating in the contralateral side to achieve a sharp azimuthal localization. It will be shown that the proposed model can be used both for purposes of understanding the mechanisms of an NN of the auditory system and for sound source lateralization tasks in technical applications, e.g., its use with the Darmstadt robotic head (DRH).
this paper,a binaural sound source,neural network,most recent neurophysiological studies,the role,certain nuclei,the superior olivary complex,the inferior colliculus,The binaural sound source,a spiking NN,neural mechanisms,complex neural models,certain parts,nuclei,the auditory system,detail,The BiSoLaNN,both excitatory and inhibitory ipsilateral and contralateral influences,only one delay line,the contralateral side,a sharp azimuthal localization,It,the proposed model,purposes,the mechanisms,an NN,the auditory system,sound source,lateralization tasks,technical applications,both for purposes of understanding the mechanisms of an NN of the auditory system and for sound source lateralization tasks in technical applications, e.g., its use,the Darmstadt robotic head,
The human brain is the best example of intelligence known, with unsurpassed ability for complex, real-time interaction with a dynamic world. AI researchers trying to imitate its remarkable functionality will benefit by learning more about neuroscience, and the differences between Natural and Artificial Intelligence. Steps that will allow AI researchers to pursue a more brain-inspired approach to AI are presented. A new approach that bridges At and neuroscience is described, Embodied Cultured Networks. Hybrids of living neural tissue and robots, called hybrots, allow detailed investigation of neural network mechanisms that may inform future AI. The field of neuroscience will also benefit tremendously from advances in AI, to deal with their massive knowledge bases and help understand Natural Intelligence.
The human brain,the best example,unsurpassed ability,complex,, real-time interaction,a dynamic world,AI researchers,its remarkable functionality,neuroscience,Steps,AI researchers,a more brain-inspired approach,AI,neuroscience,Hybrids,living neural tissue,robots,detailed investigation,neural network mechanisms,future AI.,The field,neuroscience,advances,AI,their massive knowledge bases,Natural Intelligence,
In this paper we introduce a research plan for the development of an architecture for control of grasping movements in a manipulation system. It consists in an anthropomorphic robotic gripper with tactile and propioceptive sensing capability plus a stereoscopic visual guidance system, electronic control boards designed for implementing a powerful and neurologically inspired inter-chip communication technique called AER and a HYPBF neural networks model that will emulate the performance of the most important brain areas involved in motor behaviour control for efficient object manipulation.
this paper,we,a research plan,the development,an architecture,control,movements,a manipulation system,It,an anthropomorphic robotic gripper,tactile,propioceptive,capability,a stereoscopic visual guidance system,electronic control boards,a powerful and neurologically inspired inter-chip communication technique,a HYPBF neural networks model,the performance,the most important brain areas,motor behaviour control,efficient object manipulation,
We present an artificial neural network used to learn online complex temporal sequences of gestures to a robot. The system is based on a simple temporal sequences learning architecture, neurobiological inspired model using some of the properties of the cerebellum and the hippocampus, plus a diversity generator composed of CTRNN oscillators. The use of oscillators allows to remove the ambiguity of complex sequences. The associations with oscillators allow to build an internal state to disambiguate the observable state. To understand the effect of this learning mechanism, we compare the performance of (i) our model with (ii) simple sequence learning model and with (iii) the simple sequence learning model plus a competitive mechanism between inputs and oscillators. Finally, we present an experiment showing a AIBO robot, which learns and reproduces a sequence of gestures.
We,an artificial neural network,online complex temporal sequences,gestures,a robot,The system,a simple temporal sequences,architecture,the properties,the cerebellum,the hippocampus,a diversity generator,CTRNN oscillators,The use,oscillators,the ambiguity,complex sequences,The associations,oscillators,an internal state,the observable state,the effect,this learning mechanism,we,the performance,our model,(iii,inputs,oscillators,we,an experiment,a AIBO robot,a sequence,gestures,
Address Event Representation (AER) is an emergent neuromorphic interchip communication protocol that allows real-time virtual massive connectivity among huge number of neurons located on different chips [1]. By exploiting high speed digital communication circuits (with nano-seconds timing), synaptic neural connections can be time multiplexed, while neural activity signals (with mill-seconds timings) are sampled at low frequencies. Neurons generate events according to their activity levels. That is, more active neurons generate more events per unit time and access the interchip communication channel more frequently than neurons with low activity. In Neuromorphic system development, AER brings some advantages to develop real-time image processing system: (1) AER represents the information like time continuous stream not like a frame; (2) AER sends the most important information first (although this depends on the sender); (3) AER allows to process information as soon as it is received. When AER is used in artificial vision field, each pixel is considered like a neuron, so pixels intensity is represented like a sequence of events; modifying the number and the frequency of these events, it is possible to make some image filtering. In this paper we present four image filters using AER: (a) Noise addition and suppression, (b) brightness modification, (c) single moving object tracking and (d) geometrical transformations (rotation, translation, reduction and magnification). For testing and debugging, we use USB-AER board developed by Robotic and Technology of Computers Applied to Rehabilitation (RTCAR) research group. This board is based on an FPGA, devoted to manage the AER functionality. This board also includes a micro-controlled for USB communication, 2 Mbytes RAM and 2 AER ports (one for input and one for output)."
Address Event Representation,an emergent neuromorphic interchip communication protocol,real-time virtual massive connectivity,huge number,neurons,different chips,high speed digital communication circuits,nano-seconds timing,synaptic neural connections,neural activity signals,mill-seconds timings,low frequencies,Neurons,events,their activity levels,more active neurons,more events,unit time,access,the interchip communication channel,neurons,low activity,Neuromorphic system development,AER,some advantages,real-time image processing system,AER,the information,time continuous stream,a frame,AER,the most important information,the sender,AER,information,it,AER,artificial vision field,each pixel,a neuron,pixels intensity,a sequence,events,the number,the frequency,these events,it,some image,this paper,we,four image filters,AER,(b) brightness modification,object tracking,testing,debugging,we,USB-AER board,Robotic,Computers Applied,Rehabilitation (RTCAR) research group,This board,an FPGA,the AER functionality,This board,USB communication,2 Mbytes,2 AER ports,input,output,
Bio-Inspired and Neuro-Inspired systems or circuits are a relatively novel approaches to solve real problems by mimicking the biology in its efficient solutions. Robotic also tries to mimic the biology and more particularly the human body structure and efficiency of the muscles, bones, articulations, etc. Address- Event- Representation (AER) is a communication protocol for transferring asynchronous events between VLSI chips, originally developed for neuro-inspired processing systems (for example, image processing). Such systems may consist of a complicated hierarchical structure with many chips that transmit data among them in real time, while performing some processing (for example, convolutions). The information transmitted is a sequence of spikes coded using high speed digital buses. These multi-layer and multi-chip AER systems perform actually not only image processing, but also audio processing, filtering, learning, locomotion, etc. This paper present an AER interface for controlling an anthropomorphic robotic hand with a neuro-inspired system.
Bio-Inspired and Neuro-Inspired systems,circuits,a relatively novel approaches,real problems,the biology,its efficient solutions,Robotic,the biology,the muscles,bones,articulations,Address- Event- Representation,a communication protocol,asynchronous events,VLSI chips,neuro-inspired processing systems,example,, image processing,Such systems,a complicated hierarchical structure,many chips,data,them,real time,some processing,example,The information,a sequence,spikes,high speed,digital buses,These multi-layer and multi-chip AER systems,This paper,an AER interface,an anthropomorphic robotic hand,a neuro-inspired system,
This paper proposes a brain-inspired cognitive architecture that incorporates approximations to the concepts of consciousness, imagination, and emotion. To emulate the empirically established cognitive efficacy of conscious as opposed to non-conscious information processing in the mammalian brain, the architecture adopts a model of information flow from global workspace theory. Cognitive functions such as anticipation and planning are realised through internal simulation of interaction with the environment. Action selection, in both actual and internally simulated interaction with the environment, is mediated by affect. An implementation of the architecture is described which is based on weightless neurons and is used to control a simulated robot. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This paper,a brain-inspired cognitive architecture,approximations,the concepts,consciousness,imagination,emotion,the empirically established cognitive efficacy,non-conscious information processing,the mammalian brain,the architecture,a model,information flow,global workspace theory,Cognitive functions,anticipation,planning,internal simulation,interaction,the environment,Action selection,both actual and internally simulated interaction,the environment,affect,An implementation,the architecture,weightless neurons,a simulated robot,All rights,
In this article, we present a neurobiologically inspired multinetwork architecture based on knowledge of cortico-cortical connectivity and its application on an anthropomorphic head-arm-hand robotic system to provide reach-and-grasp kinematics based on multimodal sensorimotor learning. The system incorporates artificial neural network modules (matching units) trained by the locally weighted projection regression (LWPR) algorithm that enables progressive learning from simple to more complex sensorimotor tasks. We report the actual performance of the system by comparing the simulation with the experimental results obtained by the implementation on the real world artefact.
this article,we,a neurobiologically inspired multinetwork architecture,knowledge,cortico-cortical connectivity,its application,an anthropomorphic head-arm-hand robotic system,reach-and-grasp kinematics,multimodal sensorimotor learning,The system,artificial neural network modules,the locally weighted projection regression,trained by the locally weighted projection regression (LWPR) algorithm,more complex sensorimotor tasks,We,the actual performance,the system,the simulation,the experimental results,the implementation,the real world artefact,
We examine robotic rehabilitation and assessment of spinalized rats, using robot applied forces at the pelvis, as a prelude to a neurorobotic BMI. Using a surgically implanted pelvic orthosis, a cantilevered phantom robot is attached to the rat pelvis. An isotropic elastic field of constant stiffness is applied and the equilibrium is adjusted to provide a natural trunk posture. Rats are trained daily for 20 minutes, 5 days per week in the field. Significant within trial, and long term adaptation occurs. The interaction force assessments from the robot reveal significant differences between spinalized control rats, and rats receiving implants of E14 dorsal raphe tissue to provide a serotonin source. Our system provides an animal model of rehabilitation through robot interaction at the pelvis."
We,robotic rehabilitation,assessment,spinalized rats,robot applied forces,the pelvis,a prelude,a neurorobotic BMI.,a surgically implanted pelvic orthosis,a cantilevered phantom robot,the rat pelvis,An isotropic elastic field,constant stiffness,the equilibrium,a natural trunk posture,Rats,20 minutes,week,the field,Significant,trial,long term adaptation,The interaction force,The interaction force assessments,the robot,significant differences,spinalized control rats,rats,implants,E14 dorsal raphe tissue,a serotonin source,Our system,an animal model,rehabilitation,robot interaction,the pelvis,
Address-Event-Representation (AER) is a communication protocol for transferring asynchronous events between VLSI chips, originally developed for neuro-inspired processing systems (for example, image processing). Such systems may consist of a complicated hierarchical structure with many chips that transmit data among them in real time, while performing some processing (for example, convolutions). The information transmitted is a sequence of spikes coded using high speed digital buses. These multi-layer and multi-chip AER systems perform actually not only image processing, but also audio processing, filtering, learning, locomotion, etc. This paper present an AER interface for controlling an anthropomorphic robotic hand with a neuro-inspired system.
Address-Event-Representation,a communication protocol,asynchronous events,VLSI chips,neuro-inspired processing systems,example,Such systems,a complicated hierarchical structure,many chips,data,them,real time,some processing,example,The information,a sequence,spikes,high speed digital buses,These multi-layer and multi-chip AER systems,not only image processing,audio processing,filtering,locomotion,This paper,an AER interface,an anthropomorphic robotic hand,a neuro-inspired system,
The current work addresses the problem of redesigning brain-inspired artificial cognitive systems in order to gradually enrich them with advanced cognitive skills. In the proposed approach, properly formulated neural agents are employed to represent brain areas. A cooperative coevolutionary method, with the inherent ability to co-adapt substructures, supports the design of agents. Interestingly enough, the same method provides a consistent mechanism to reconfigure (if necessary) the structure of agents, facilitating follow-up modelling efforts. In the present work we demonstrate partial redesign of a brain-inspired cognitive system, in order to furnish it with learning abilities. The implemented model is successfully embedded in a simulated robotic platform which supports environmental interaction, exhibiting the ability of the improved cognitive system to adopt, in real-time, two different operating strategies.
The current work,the problem,brain-inspired artificial cognitive systems,order,them,advanced cognitive skills,the proposed approach,neural agents,brain areas,A cooperative coevolutionary method,the inherent ability,substructures,the design,agents,the same method,a consistent mechanism,the structure,agents,follow-up modelling efforts,the present work,we,partial redesign,a brain-inspired cognitive system,order,it,learning abilities,The implemented model,a simulated robotic platform,environmental interaction,the ability,the improved cognitive system,real-time,two different operating strategies,
Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs) are attractive tools to survey earth science and oceanography, however, there exists a lot of problems to be solved such as motion control, acquisition of sensor data, decision-making, navigation without collision, self-localization and so on. In order to realize useful and practical robots, underwater vehicles should take their action by judging the changing condition from their own sensors and actuators, and are desirable to make their behavior, because of features caused by the working environment. We have been investigated the application of brain-inspired technologies such as Neural Networks (NNs) and Self-Organizing Map (SOM) into AUVs. A new controller system for AUVs using Modular Network SOM (mnSOM) proposed by Tokunaga et al. is discussed in this paper. The proposed system is developed using recurrent NN type mnSOM. The efficiency of the system is investigated through the simulations.
Autonomous Underwater Vehicles,attractive tools,earth science,oceanography,a lot,problems,motion control,acquisition,sensor data,decision-making,navigation,collision,self-localization,order,useful and practical robots,underwater vehicles,their action,the changing condition,their own sensors,actuators,their behavior,features,the working environment,We,the application,brain-inspired technologies,Neural Networks,AUVs,AUVs,Modular Network SOM,Tokunaga et al,this paper,The proposed system,recurrent NN type,The efficiency,the system,the simulations,
Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs) are attractive tools to survey earth science and oceanography, however, there exists a lot of problems to be solved such as motion control, acquisition of sensor data, decision-making, navigation without collision, self-localization and so on. In order to realize useful and practical robots, underwater vehicles should take their action by judging the changing condition from their own sensors and actuators, and are desirable to make their behavior, because of features caused by the working environment. We have been investigated the application of brain-inspired technologies such as Neural Networks (NNs) and Self-Organizing Map (SOM) into AUVs. A new controller system for AUVs using Modular Network SOM (mnSOM) proposed by Tokunaga et al. is discussed in this paper. The proposed system is developed using recurrent NN type mnSOM. The efficiency of the system is investigated through the simulations.
Autonomous Underwater Vehicles,attractive tools,earth science,oceanography,a lot,problems,motion control,acquisition,sensor data,decision-making,navigation,collision,self-localization,order,useful and practical robots,underwater vehicles,their action,the changing condition,their own sensors,actuators,their behavior,features,the working environment,We,the application,brain-inspired technologies,Neural Networks,AUVs,AUVs,Modular Network SOM,Tokunaga et al,this paper,The proposed system,recurrent NN type,The efficiency,the system,the simulations,
In order to answer the general question: "What does a simple agent with a limited life-time require for constructing a useful representation of the environment?" we propose a robot platform including the simplest probabilistic sensory and motor layers. Then we use the platform as a test-bed for evaluation of the navigational capabilities of the robot with different "brains". We claim that a protocognitive behavior is not a consequence of highly sophisticated sensory-motor organs but instead emerges through an increment of the internal complexity and reutilization of the minimal sensory information. We show that the most fundamental robot element, the short-time memory, is essential in obstacle avoidance. However, in the simplest conditions of no obstacles the straightforward memory-less robot is usually superior. We also demonstrate how a low level action planning. involving essentially nonlinear dynamics, provides a considerable gain to the robot performance dynamically changing the robot strategy. Still, however, for very short life time the brainless robot is superior. Accordingly we suggest that small organisms (or agents) with short life-time does not require complex brains and even can benefit from simple brain-like (reflex) structures. To some extend this may mean that controlling blocks of modern robots are too complicated comparative to their life-time and mechanical abilities.
order,the general question,What,a simple agent,a limited life-time require,a useful representation,the environment,we,a robot platform,the simplest probabilistic sensory and motor layers,we,the platform,a test-bed,evaluation,the navigational capabilities,the robot,different "brains,We,a protocognitive behavior,a consequence,highly sophisticated sensory-motor organs,an increment,the internal complexity,reutilization,the minimal sensory information,We,the most fundamental robot element,the short-time memory,obstacle avoidance,the simplest conditions,no obstacles,the straightforward memory-less robot,We,essentially nonlinear dynamics,a considerable gain,the robot performance,the robot strategy,very short life time,the brainless robot,we,small organisms,agents,short life-time,complex brains,simple brain-like (reflex) structures,controlling blocks,modern robots,their life-time,mechanical abilities,
Internal models and adaptive controls are empirical and mathematical paradigms that have evolved separately to describe learning control processes in brain systems and engineering systems, respectively. This paper presents a comprehensive appraisal of the correlation between these paradigms with a view to forging a unified theoretical framework that may benefit both disciplines. It is suggested that the classic equilibrium-point theory of impedance control of arm movement is analogous to continuous gain-scheduling or high-gain adaptive control within or across movement trials, respectively, and that the recently proposed inverse internal model is akin to adaptive sliding control originally for robotic manipulator applications. Modular internal models architecture for multiple motor tasks is a form of multi-model adaptive control. Stochastic methods, such as generalized predictive control, reinforcement learning, Bayesian learning and Hebbian feedback covariance learning, are reviewed and their possible relevance to motor control is discussed. Possible applicability of a Luenberger observer and an extended Kalman filter to state estimation problems-such as sensorimotor prediction or the resolution of vestibular sensory ambiguity-is also discussed. The important role played by vestibular system identification in postural control suggests an indirect adaptive control scheme whereby system states or parameters are explicitly estimated prior to the implementation of control. This interdisciplinary framework should facilitate the experimental elucidation of the mechanisms of internal models in sensorimotor systems and the reverse engineering of such neural mechanisms into novel brain-inspired adaptive control paradigms in future."
Internal models,adaptive controls,empirical and mathematical paradigms,control processes,brain systems,engineering systems,This paper,a comprehensive appraisal,the correlation,these paradigms,a view,a unified theoretical framework,both disciplines,It,the classic equilibrium-point theory,impedance control,arm movement,continuous gain-scheduling,high-gain adaptive control,movement trials,the recently proposed inverse internal model,adaptive sliding control,robotic manipulator applications,Modular internal models,Modular internal models architecture,multiple motor tasks,a form,multi-model adaptive control,Stochastic methods,generalized predictive control,reinforcement learning,Bayesian,Bayesian learning,Hebbian feedback covariance learning,their possible relevance,motor control,Possible applicability,a Luenberger observer,an extended Kalman filter,state estimation problems,sensorimotor prediction,the resolution,vestibular sensory ambiguity,The important role,vestibular system identification,postural control,an indirect adaptive control scheme,system,parameters,the implementation,control,This interdisciplinary framework,the experimental elucidation,the mechanisms,internal models,sensorimotor systems,the reverse engineering,such neural mechanisms,novel brain-inspired adaptive control paradigms,future,
Drawing inspiration from biology, the Psikharpax project aims at endowing a robot with a sensory-motor equipment and a neural control architecture that will afford some of the capacities of autonomy and adaptation that are exhibited by real rats. The paper summarizes the current state of achievement of the project. It successively describes the robots future sensors and actuators, and several biomimetic models of the anatomy and physiology of structures in the rats brain, like the hippocampus and the basal ganglia, which have already been at work on various robots, and that make navigation and action selection possible. Preliminary results on the implementation of learning mechanisms in these structures are also presented. Finally, the article discusses the potential benefits that a biologically inspired approach affords to traditional autonomous robotics. (c) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."
inspiration,biology,the Psikharpax project,a robot,a sensory-motor equipment,a neural control architecture,the capacities,autonomy,adaptation,real rats,The paper,the current state,achievement,the project,It,the robots,several biomimetic models,the anatomy,physiology,structures,the rats brain,the hippocampus,the basal ganglia,work,various robots,navigation,action,Preliminary results,the implementation,mechanisms,these structures,the article,the potential benefits,a biologically inspired approach,traditional autonomous robotics,c) 2004 Elsevier B.V.,All rights,


This paper proposes a two-stage learning strategy constructed by two kinds of neural networks to simulate function of human brain. In the first stage, sequence images from environment input to a HOSM neural network. By unsupervised learning, the weights are fixed which can extract local features like visions receptive field. In the second stage, an improved HDR neural network is built by supervised learning. This proposed structure has been implemented on a brain-like robot. Experimental results show that the learning strategy is effect."
This paper,a two-stage learning strategy,two kinds,neural networks,function,human brain,the first stage,environment input,a HOSM neural network,unsupervised learning,the weights,local features,visions,receptive field,the second stage,an improved HDR neural network,supervised learning,This proposed structure,a brain-like robot,Experimental results,the learning strategy,effect,
The creation of architectures for controlling the behavior of autonomous systems is a difficult challenge. Evolutionary robotics uses neurally inspired models, rather than explicit symbolic systems, to evolve controllers for robots. Most approaches in evolutionary robotics have used abstract ANN or spiking single neuron models to evolve control architectures. In this paper we apply the evolutionary approach to creating a controller for an autonomous robot based on the aperiodic Kset neural population model. We introduce a discretization of the basic K-set units. We then demonstrate that the evolutionary approach evolves effective controllers for navigation tasks using the basic discrete units.
The creation,architectures,the behavior,autonomous systems,a difficult challenge,neurally inspired models,explicit symbolic systems,controllers,robots,Most approaches,evolutionary robotics,abstract ANN,single neuron models,control architectures,this paper,we,the evolutionary approach,a controller,an autonomous robot,the aperiodic Kset neural population model,We,a discretization,the basic K-set units,We,the evolutionary approach,effective controllers,navigation tasks,the basic discrete units,
In this paper, we design the continuous symbol space using the dynainics-based information processing system. One point in the symbol space decides a vector field in the motion space that generates the cyclic motion and the continuous motion transition of the robots. Because the motion of the state vector in the symbol space is defined by a dynamical system, the spatial and temporal continuous information processing system is realized.
this paper,we,the continuous symbol space,the dynainics-based information processing system,One point,the symbol space,a vector field,the motion space,the cyclic motion,the continuous motion transition,the robots,the motion,the state vector,the symbol space,a dynamical system,the spatial and temporal continuous information processing system,
Object permanence is an important theoretical construct that has been researched with infants. For the last twenty years, a debate as whether object permanence is an innate conceptual knowledge or a gradually constructed perceptual capability has been raised. However, the lack of autonomous computational models leaves this issue still widely open. In this paper, a neurologically inspired computational model based on priming is proposed and tested on our developmental SAIL robot. By nurturing the robot baby with different living experiences, we conduct the well-known "drawbridge" experiment on eleven experience-tuned "brains:" The implication of our experimental results is informative, which not only sheds light on the controversial issue of object permanence, but might produce long lasting effects on the way AI community approaches highly perceptual machines.
Object permanence,an important theoretical construct,infants,the last twenty years,object permanence,an innate conceptual knowledge,a gradually constructed perceptual capability,the lack,autonomous computational models,this issue,this paper,a neurologically inspired computational model,our developmental SAIL robot,the robot baby,different living experiences,we,the well-known "drawbridge" experiment,eleven experience-tuned "brains,The implication,our experimental results,light,the controversial issue,object permanence,long lasting effects,the way,AI community,highly perceptual machines,
Large multimedia archives could be built according to the Autosophy information theory, rather than the conventional Shannon information theory. This would result in brain-like self-learning archives with virtually failure-proof operations. Future archives must provide virtually unlimited storage capacities for any multimedia data, including live video, sound, still images, text, and random bit files. Database access (including remote Internet access) should be facilitated with automatic indexing. All communication with us should eventually be in grammatical language. The archives may eventually migrate into mobile robots, requiring small memory size, low power consumption, and virtually absolute reliability. A universal 64bit data format would make all future archiving and communications systems compatible. The memory for the archives could be a roll of thin stainless steel foil with printed Poly-Silicon Thin Film Transistors - about the size of a roll of toilet paper. Two memory spools could be configured as a pair to assure virtually failure-proof operations, including self-checking, self-repair, and self-cloning procedures. Both the theoretical knowledge and the required hardware are now becoming available for building these brain-like archives of the future. From there, the path lies open toward intelligent robots and eventually to true Artificial Intelligence.
Large multimedia archives,the Autosophy information theory,the conventional Shannon information theory,brain-like self-learning archives,virtually failure-proof operations,Future archives,virtually unlimited storage capacities,any multimedia data,live video,sound,Database access,remote Internet access,automatic indexing,All communication,us,grammatical language,The archives,mobile robots,small memory size,low power consumption,A universal 64bit data format,all future archiving,communications systems,The memory,the archives,a roll,thin stainless steel foil,printed Poly-Silicon Thin Film Transistors,the size,a roll,toilet paper,Two memory spools,a pair,virtually failure-proof operations,self-repair,self-cloning procedures,Both the theoretical knowledge,the required hardware,these brain-like archives,the future,the path,intelligent robots,true Artificial Intelligence,
The goal of this work is to understand how neural tissue can be programed to execute predetermined functions. We developed a research tool that includes the brainstem of a lamprey and a two-wheeled robot interconnected in a closed loop. We report here the development of a framework for studying the dynamics of the neural tissue based on the interaction of this tissue with the robot.
The goal,this work,neural tissue,predetermined functions,We,a research tool,the brainstem,a lamprey,a two-wheeled robot,a closed loop,We,the development,a framework,the dynamics,the neural tissue,the interaction,this tissue,the robot,
In this article we present a neurally-inspired self-adaptive active binocular tracking scheme and an efficient mathematical model for online computation of desired binocular-head trajectories. The self-adaptive neural network (NN) model is general and can be adopted in output tracking schemes of any partly known robotic systems. The tracking scheme ingeniously combines the conventional Resolved Velocity Control (RVC) technique and an adaptive compensating NN model constructed using SoftMax basis functions as nonlinear activation function. Desired trajectories to the servo controller are computed online by the use of a suitable linear kinematics mathematical model of the system. Online weight tuning algorithm guarantees tracking with small errors and error rates as well as bounded NN weights.
this article,we,a neurally-inspired self-adaptive active binocular tracking scheme,an efficient mathematical model,online computation,desired binocular-head trajectories,The self-adaptive neural network (NN) model,output tracking schemes,any partly known robotic systems,The tracking scheme,the conventional Resolved Velocity Control,technique,an adaptive compensating NN model,SoftMax basis functions,nonlinear activation function,Desired trajectories,the servo controller,the use,a suitable linear kinematics mathematical model,the system,Online weight tuning algorithm,small errors,error rates,
A method for decoding the spatio-temporal localization of behavioral events using the activity recorded from populations of neurons in-vivo is presented. The method is broken down into two parts: decoding temporal localization and decoding spatial localization of the events. As examples, the method is applied for (i) detecting the time of footfall contact during treadmill locomotion and (ii) classifying the location of passive cutaneous stimulation to the forepaw. The work presented was performed off-line but can easily be implemented in real-time to be used for neurorobotic control.
A method,the spatio-temporal localization,behavioral events,the activity,populations,neurons,vivo,The method,two parts,temporal localization,spatial localization,the events,examples,the method,the time,footfall contact,treadmill locomotion,the location,passive cutaneous stimulation,the forepaw,The work,line,real-time,neurorobotic control,
In this paper we describe a method for the synthesis of robotic controllers using evolutionary techniques. A modified version of the recurrent neural network used for controlling the robots is evolved using Genetic Algorithm using the Variable Length Genotype approach where the genotype encodes the network, It has been discovered that separation of modalities in the network like vision, touch for the first few layers helps in faster evolution as well as development of faster controller networks. The structure of the network that emerges from this kind of evolution is similar to brain like networks. Performance of plastic versus non-plastic individuals has also been explored. Gene-Blocking technique has been used for developing several behaviors in the same evolution cycle. The final controller developed at the end of the evolutionary process was tested on a Khepera.
this paper,we,a method,the synthesis,robotic controllers,evolutionary techniques,A modified version,the recurrent neural network,the robots,Genetic Algorithm,the Variable Length Genotype approach,the genotype,the network,It,separation,modalities,the network,vision,touch,the first few layers,faster evolution,development,faster controller networks,The structure,the network,this kind,evolution,brain,networks,Performance,non-plastic individuals,Gene-Blocking technique,several behaviors,the same evolution cycle,The final controller,the end,the evolutionary process,a Khepera,
For the development of the intelligent robot with many degree-of-freedom, the reduction of the whole body motion and the implementation of the brain-like information system is necessary. In this paper, we propose the reduction method of the whole body motion based on the singular value decomposition and design method of the brain-like information processing system using the nonlinear dynamics with polynomial configuration. By using the proposed method, we design the humanoid whole body motion that is caused by the input sensor signals.
the development,the intelligent robot,freedom,many degree-of-freedom, the reduction,the whole body motion,the implementation,the brain-like information system,this paper,we,the reduction method,the whole body motion,the singular value decomposition,design method,the brain-like information processing system,the nonlinear dynamics,polynomial configuration,the proposed method,we,the humanoid whole body motion,the input sensor signals,
In this paper, we develop the on-line design method and the hierarchical design method of dynamics based information processing system for the robot intelligence. By using the for,getting parameter, dynamics memorizes a new robot motion forgetting an old motion, which means the plasticity of the system. The hierarchical structure enables information processing for complex and. continuous environment. We implement the proposed method to a humanoid robot and realize the motion generation and transition.
this paper,we,line,the on-line design method,the hierarchical design method,dynamics,based information processing system,the robot intelligence,the for,parameter,dynamics,a new robot motion,an old motion,the plasticity,the system,The hierarchical structure,information processing,We,the proposed method,a humanoid robot,the motion generation,transition,
We expand here on our preliminary results from development of a new biorobotic system for advanced studies of brain machine interface development and cortical neuroprosthetics. Our overall testbed for these studies consists of a small mobile robot that is driven by a trained rat operator. The rat is chronically implanted with 16-site silicon electrode arrays in sensory cortex. Single and multi-unit neural recordings are obtained simultaneously during robot movement. We call this integrated bio-mechano system the RABOT and studies using the RABOT are defined as neurabotics. With this set-up, a range of experimental paradigms is possible. Ultimately, we will train rats to move the robot towards an auditory or visual goal. In this report, we evaluate multichannel sensory recordings obtained from auditory cortex of rats in the RABOT to determine the accuracy of RABOT position while moving within a linear environment (where the robot is limited to 1-D travel up and down a single track)."
We,our preliminary results,development,a new biorobotic system,advanced studies,brain machine interface development,cortical neuroprosthetics,Our overall testbed,these studies,a small mobile robot,a trained rat operator,The rat,16-site silicon electrode arrays,sensory cortex,Single and multi-unit neural recordings,robot movement,We,this integrated bio-mechano system,the RABOT,neurabotics,this set,a range,experimental paradigms,we,rats,the robot,an auditory or visual goal,this report,we,multichannel sensory recordings,auditory cortex,rats,the RABOT,the accuracy,RABOT position,a linear environment,the robot,1-D travel,
Most current approaches for robot control do not make use of language and ignore neural learning. However, our robot control approach uses language instruction and draws from the concepts of regional distributed modularity, mirror neuron theory and neural assemblies. We describe a self-organising model that clusters action verbs into different locations of the output layer dependent on the body part they are associated with. In doing so we build on our previous work by using actual sensor readings from the MIRA robot that incorporate semantic features of the action verbs. Furthermore, we outline a hierarchical computational model for a neurally inspired self-organising robot action control system using language for instruction.
Most current approaches,robot control,use,language,neural learning,our robot control approach,language instruction,the concepts,regional distributed modularity,mirror neuron theory,neural assemblies,We,a self-organising model,action verbs,different locations,the output layer,the body part,they,we,our previous work,actual sensor readings,the MIRA robot,semantic features,the action verbs,we,a hierarchical computational model,a neurally inspired self-organising robot action control system,language,instruction,
We argue that direct experimental approaches to elucidate the architecture of higher brains may benefit from insights gained from exploring the possibilities and limits of artificial control architectures for robot systems. We present some of our recent work that has been motivated by that view and that is centered around the study of various aspects of hand actions since these are intimately linked with many higher cognitive abilities. As examples, we report on the development of a modular system for the recognition of continuous hand postures based on neural nets, the use of vision and tactile sensing for guiding prehensile movements of a multifingered hand, and the recognition and use of hand gestures for robot teaching. Regarding the issue of learning, we propose to view real-world learning from the perspective of data-mining and to focus more strongly on the imitation of observed actions instead of purely reinforcement-based exploration. As a concrete example of such an effort we report on the status of an ongoing project in our laboratory in which a robot equipped with an attention system with a neurally inspired architecture is taught actions by using hand gestures in conjunction with speech commands. We point out some of the lessons learnt from this system, and discuss how systems of this kind can contribute to the study of issues at the junction between natural and artificial cognitive systems.
We,direct experimental approaches,the architecture,higher brains,insights,the possibilities,limits,artificial control architectures,robot systems,We,our recent work,that view,the study,various aspects,hand actions,many higher cognitive abilities,examples,we,the development,a modular system,the recognition,continuous hand postures,neural nets,the use,vision,tactile,prehensile movements,a multifingered hand,the recognition,use,hand gestures,robot teaching,the issue,we,real-world learning,the perspective,data-mining,the imitation,observed actions,purely reinforcement-based exploration,a concrete example,such an effort,we,the status,an ongoing project,our laboratory,a robot,an attention system,a neurally inspired architecture,actions,hand gestures,conjunction,speech commands,We,the lessons,this system,systems,this kind,the study,issues,the junction,natural and artificial cognitive systems,
In this paper, we propose brain-like (BL) sensorimotor control system that is assumed to be composed of its unconscious and conscious part. The conscious part of BL sensorimotor control system is emerged when Prefrontal Cortex (PFC) acts with respect to spatiotemporal selective attention mechanism in particular. In our framework, the selective attention can be induced by Bayes rule comprising of PFC-based neural network where both unsupervised and supervised learning schemes are employed. A preliminary experiment is manually carried out to analyse human control mechanism for the stability of RC-helicopter. As a result, we suggest the relationship between the selective attention and the minimum variance theory. BL sensorimotor control system is favorably considered to build subject to suffice the minimum variance theory that is the key for computing spatiotemporal selective attention mechanism, computed by the PFC-based neural network. In this paper, the network is also examined with respect to control the RC-helicopter and the result shows the soundness of BL sensorimotor control system."
this paper,we,brain-like (BL) sensorimotor control system,its unconscious and conscious part,The conscious part,BL sensorimotor control system,Prefrontal Cortex,respect,spatiotemporal selective attention mechanism,our framework,the selective attention,Bayes rule,PFC-based neural network,learning schemes,A preliminary experiment,analyse human control mechanism,the stability,RC-helicopter,a result,we,the relationship,the selective attention,the minimum variance theory,BL sensorimotor control system,the minimum variance theory,the key,spatiotemporal selective attention mechanism,the PFC-based neural network,this paper,the network,respect,the RC-helicopter,the result,the soundness,BL sensorimotor control system,
For the development of the intelligent robot with many degree-of-freedom, the reduction of the whole body motion and the implementation of the brain-like information system is necessary. In this paper, we propose the reduction method of the whole body motion based on the singular value decomposition and design method of the brain-like information processing system using the nonlinear dynamics network with the polynomial configuration. By using the proposed method, we design the humanoid whole body motion that is caused by the input sensor signals.
the development,the intelligent robot,freedom,many degree-of-freedom, the reduction,the whole body motion,the implementation,the brain-like information system,this paper,we,the reduction method,the whole body motion,the singular value decomposition,design method,the brain-like information processing system,the nonlinear dynamics network,the polynomial configuration,the proposed method,we,the humanoid whole body motion,the input sensor signals,
Biological inspiration for neural technology has various degree of implementation and its application to brain-like systems is a very challenging problem. There are a number of different approaches to these neural technologies including ART-like neural networks, various Malsburgs models and the whole family of neocognitron systems based on Hubei and Wiesel model (H-W model) of the visual cortex and its information processing. The presented work represents the experience with neocognitron technology developed by Prof. Fukushima in late 80-ties to identify the type of formations of the mobile robots on the soccer field. This information should be complementary to each soccer team and should represent an intelligent coach-like advisor for the teams to evaluate a type of situation on the playground. The input should be an image of the playground and the output should be a categorization to the types of formation of the team e.g. attacking formation, defending formation and so on. This information should be considered as additional for the selected team. The biological inspiration here is very strong and presents a model of the visual system for real-time processing requirements. There will be briefly described general motivation and overall soccer system architecture. The main aim of this is to present experience with implementation and application of neocognitron neural network in the problem of estimation of the strategic distribution of soccer players on the playing field and its identification by the help of biologically inspired system.
Biological inspiration,neural technology,various degree,implementation,its application,brain-like systems,a very challenging problem,a number,different approaches,these neural technologies,ART-like neural networks,various Malsburgs models,the whole family,neocognitron systems,Hubei,Wiesel model,the visual cortex,its information processing,The presented work,the experience,neocognitron technology,Prof,late 80-ties,the type,formations,the mobile robots,the soccer field,This information,each soccer team,an intelligent coach-like advisor,the teams,a type,situation,the playground,The input,an image,the playground,the output,a categorization,the types,formation,the team,formation,formation,This information,the selected team,The biological inspiration,a model,the visual system,real-time processing requirements,briefly described general motivation,overall soccer system architecture,The main aim,experience,implementation,application,neocognitron neural network,the problem,estimation,the strategic distribution,soccer players,the playing field,its identification,the help,biologically inspired system,
Our approach integrates some neuroscience evidence for regional distributed modularity with cognitive evidence for action verb processing. The long-term goal is to provide a computational model for a neurally inspired self-organising robot action control system. Regional modularity in the brain involves distributed neural networks in diverse regions processing in a parallel manner. According to neurocognitive findings, action verbs are processed by associating specific cell assemblies with the appropriate body part. We present a model of the neurocognitive findings using self-organising networks that cluster action verbs into different locations of the network dependent on the body part they are associated with.
Our approach,some neuroscience evidence,regional distributed modularity,cognitive evidence,action verb processing,The long-term goal,a computational model,a neurally inspired self-organising robot action control system,Regional modularity,the brain,distributed neural networks,diverse regions,a parallel manner,neurocognitive findings,action verbs,specific cell assemblies,the appropriate body part,We,a model,the neurocognitive findings,self-organising networks,action verbs,different locations,the network,the body part,they,
In this paper, a neural-network-based adaptive control scheme is presented to solve the output-tracking problem of a robotic system with unknown nonlinearities. The control scheme ingeniously combines the conventional Resolved Velocity Control (RVC) technique and a neurally-inspired adaptive compensating paradigm constructed using SoftMax function networks and Neural Gas (NG) algorithm. Results of simulations on our active binocular head are reported. The neural network (NN) model is constructed to have two neural subnets to separately take care of robot heads neck and eye control simplifying the design and making for faster weight tuning algorithms."
this paper,a neural-network-based adaptive control scheme,the output-tracking problem,a robotic system,unknown nonlinearities,The control scheme,the conventional Resolved Velocity Control,technique,a neurally-inspired adaptive compensating paradigm,SoftMax function networks,Neural Gas (NG) algorithm,Results,simulations,our active binocular head,The neural network,two neural subnets,care,robot heads,the design,algorithms,
Neuro-robotic systems provide a unique paradigm for relating computational questions to observations of neuronal behavior. We describe a new experimental preparation for studying the neurobiological underpinnings of motor learning through the interaction of a mobile robot with live neural tissue. The brainstem of a lamprey was stimulated by electrical impulses that coded the light intensity detected by sensors on the robot. The neural responses to these stimuli controlled the speed of the robots wheels. In this dosed, loop arrangement, the robot responded to a light source with a behavior that reflected the neural processing in the brainstem. This neurorobotic system allowed as to test specific hypotheses on neural information processing based on the observed behavior of the robot and on the recorded neural activities. We compared the performance of the actual system with the simulated performance obtained from different neural network models. We found that dynamic networks with recurrent dynamics are significantly superior to static feedforward networks models even when the dynamic models have fewer parameters than the static models. Additional findings led as to conclude that the main origin of this dynamic behavior is local ipsilateral influence of the previous state on the current state."
Neuro-robotic systems,a unique paradigm,computational questions,observations,neuronal behavior,We,a new experimental preparation,the neurobiological underpinnings,the interaction,a mobile robot,live neural tissue,The brainstem,a lamprey,electrical impulses,the light intensity,sensors,the robot,The neural responses,these stimuli,the speed,the robots wheels,this dosed, loop arrangement,the robot,a light source,a behavior,the neural processing,the brainstem,This neurorobotic system,specific hypotheses,neural information processing,the observed behavior,the robot,the recorded neural activities,We,the performance,the actual system,the simulated performance,different neural network models,We,dynamic networks,recurrent dynamics,static feedforward networks models,the dynamic models,fewer parameters,the static models,Additional findings,the main origin,this dynamic behavior,local ipsilateral influence,the previous state,the current state,
Robotics technology is mature enough to provide helpful tools in the study of biological systems. The recent advances of humanoid robotics led to achievements in the development of human-like body parts and whole bodies, as well as of perceptual systems and schemes for behavior planning and learning. For this reason, a step further can be envisaged in the application of human-like robots as \guinea pigs\ for neuroscientific studies of Man. Aiming at combining humanoid robotics and neurosciences, this is a very promising research area which can be referred to as "neurorobotics". This paper presents a human-like robotic manipulation platform for implementing neuro-physiological models of sensory-motor coordination in human grasping. The system is composed of sensors and actuators replicating some level of anthropomorphism, in the physical structure and/or in the functionality. For this reason, their specifications are defined together with neurophysiologists. Software modules implement human-like basic mechanisms of perception and learning, on which more complex architectures are developed. The system is integrated so as to be as modular as possible and to be rearranged for validating different solutions. The performance of the system in grasping is evaluated by techniques and tools derived from functional evaluation of humans in rehabilitation.
Robotics technology,helpful tools,the study,biological systems,The recent advances,humanoid robotics,achievements,the development,human-like body parts,whole bodies,perceptual systems,schemes,behavior planning,learning,this reason,a step,the application,human-like robots,\guinea pigs\,neuroscientific studies,Man,humanoid robotics,neurosciences,a very promising research area,"neurorobotics,This paper,a human-like robotic manipulation platform,neuro-physiological models,sensory-motor coordination,human grasping,The system,sensors,actuators,some level,anthropomorphism,the physical structure,the functionality,this reason,their specifications,neurophysiologists,Software modules,human-like basic mechanisms,perception,learning,more complex architectures,The system,different solutions,The performance,the system,grasping,techniques,tools,functional evaluation,humans,rehabilitation,
In the mammalian nervous system, the sensorimotor interface between cortex and spinal cord plays a key role in novel skill formation and motor learning. We seek to understand the principles of motor learning at this interface using a multidisciplinary approach. We believe this approach will prove relevant to the development of biomimetic control architectures for humanoid robots. Learning at this interface requires an understanding of the spinal output structures. Ultimately, these must form the basis of the algorithms needed for adaptive motor learning. These spinal structures interact with descending cortical control to produce accurate limb trajectories, and novel motor behavior. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
the mammalian nervous system,the sensorimotor interface,cortex,spinal cord,a key role,novel skill formation,motor learning,We,the principles,this interface,a multidisciplinary approach,We,this approach,the development,biomimetic control architectures,humanoid robots,this interface,an understanding,the spinal output structures,the basis,the algorithms,adaptive motor learning,These spinal structures,cortical control,accurate limb trajectories,novel motor behavior,All rights,
We think because we eat. Or as Descartes might have said, on a little more reflection, "I need to eat, therefore I think." Animals that forage for a living repeatedly face the problem of searching for a sparsely distributed resource in a vast space. Furthermore, the resource may occur sporadically and episodically under conditions of true uncertainty (nonstationary, complex and non-linear dynamics). I assert that this problem is the canonical problem solved by intelligence. It\s solution is the basis for the evolution of more advanced intelligence in which the space of search includes that of concepts (objects and relations) encoded in cortical structures. In humans the conscious experience of searching through concept space we call thinking. The foraging search model is based upon a higher-order autopoeitic system (the forager) employing anticipatory processing to enhance its success at finding food while avoiding becoming food or having accidents in a hostile world. I present a semi-formal description of the general foraging search problem and an approach to its solution. The latter is a brain-like structure employing dynamically adaptive neurons. A physical robot, MAVRIC, embodies some principles of foraging. It learns cues that lead to improvements in finding targets in a dynamic and nonstationary environment. This capability is based on a unique learning mechanism that encodes causal relations in the neural-like processing element. An argument is advanced that searching for resources in the physical world, as per the foraging model, is a prototype for generalized search for conceptual resources as when we think. A problem represents a conceptual disturbance in a homeostatic sense. The finding of a solution restores the homeostatic balance. The establishment of links between conceptual cues and solutions (resources) and the later use of those cues to think through to solutions of quasi-isomorphic problems is, essentially, foraging for ideas. It is a quite natural extension of the fundamental foraging model.
We,we,Descartes,a little more reflection,I,I,Animals,the problem,a sparsely distributed resource,a vast space,the resource,conditions,true uncertainty,I,this problem,the canonical problem,intelligence,It\s solution,the basis,the evolution,more advanced intelligence,the space,search,concepts,cortical structures,humans,the conscious experience,concept space,we,The foraging search model,a higher-order autopoeitic system,anticipatory processing,its success,food,food,accidents,a hostile world,I,a semi-formal description,the general foraging search problem,an approach,its solution,a brain-like structure,dynamically adaptive neurons,A physical robot,some principles,foraging,It,cues,improvements,targets,a dynamic and nonstationary environment,This capability,a unique learning mechanism,causal relations,the neural-like processing element,An argument,resources,the physical world,the foraging model,a prototype,generalized search,conceptual resources,we,A problem,a conceptual disturbance,a homeostatic sense,The finding,a solution,the homeostatic balance,The establishment,links,conceptual cues,solutions,(resources,the later use,those cues,solutions,quasi-isomorphic problems,ideas,It,a quite natural extension,the fundamental foraging model,
An important feature of human intelligence is the use of symbols. This is seen in our daily use of language and logical thinking. However, the use of symbols is not limited to humans. We observe planned action sequences in primate behavior and prediction-based action in higher mammals. For the representation and operation of symbols by the brain neural circuit, no specific construction principle or computational theory is known so fa. In this paper, we regard the brain as a complex of associative memory and dynamic attentional system, and starting from two hypotheses on information representation and operation in the brain, we propose a model of primitive symbolic behavior emergence that is consistent with the conventional symbolic processing model. We also describe a computational theory of the symbolic processing model in associative memory. Through computer simulation studies on a language-like memory search and map learning by a moving robot, we discuss the validity of the model. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
An important feature,human intelligence,the use,symbols,our daily use,language,logical thinking,the use,symbols,humans,We,planned action sequences,primate behavior,prediction-based action,higher mammals,the representation,operation,symbols,the brain neural circuit,no specific construction principle,computational theory,this paper,we,the brain,a complex,associative memory,dynamic attentional system,two hypotheses,information representation,operation,the brain,we,a model,primitive symbolic behavior emergence,the conventional symbolic processing model,We,a computational theory,the symbolic processing model,associative memory,computer simulation studies,a language-like memory search,map,a moving robot,we,the validity,the model,All rights,
To determine whether simultaneously recorded motor cortex neurons can be used for real-time device control, rats were trained to position a robot arm to obtain water by pressing a lever. Mathematical transformations, including neural networks, converted multineuron signals into neuronal population functions that accurately predicted lever trajectory. Next, these functions were electronically converted into real-time signals for robot arm control. After switching to this neurorobotic mode, 4 of 6 animals (those with >25 task-related neurons) routinely used these brain-derived signals to position the robot arm and obtain water. With continued training in neurorobotic mode, the animals lever movement diminished or stopped. These results suggest a possible means for movement restoration in paralysis patients."
simultaneously recorded motor cortex neurons,real-time device control,rats,a robot arm,water,a lever,Mathematical transformations,neural networks,multineuron signals,neuronal population functions,lever trajectory,these functions,real-time signals,robot arm control,this neurorobotic mode,>25 task-related neurons,these brain-derived signals,the robot arm,water,continued training,neurorobotic mode,the animals lever movement,These results,movement restoration,paralysis patients,
Today, as many new application areas for robotic systems emerge, safe operating conditions for human personnel engaged in installation, programming and maintenance of a robot have become a critical consideration. Robots make use of multiple sources of sensory information. However, the diverse and complex sensors of a robot system supply information that is often uncertain, conflicting, or incorrect. Therefore, it is difficult to interpret and aggregate this information into a purposeful and homogenous robots workspace description. Thus, in the area of robotics, sensory integration and management of uncertainty have become problems of immense practical importance. Furthermore, due to limited computational power and a lack of effective algorithms for processing sensory information, multisensory systems suffer from a relatively low level of real-time performance. To achieve a real-time response in robot systems it is necessary to consider new technology such as artificial neural networks that enable parallel computing, brain-like control, and representation. This article reviews recent literature on robot safety, focusing on collision avoidance, management of uncertainty in sensory integration, and application of neural networks in the above areas."
many new application areas,robotic systems,safe operating conditions,human personnel,installation,programming,maintenance,a robot,a critical consideration,Robots,use,multiple sources,sensory information,a robot system supply information,it,this information,a purposeful and homogenous robots workspace description,the area,robotics,sensory integration,management,uncertainty,problems,immense practical importance,limited computational power,a lack,effective algorithms,sensory information,multisensory systems,a relatively low level,real-time performance,a real-time response,robot systems,it,new technology,artificial neural networks,parallel computing,brain-like control,This article,recent literature,robot safety,collision avoidance,management,uncertainty,sensory integration,application,neural networks,the above areas,
A comparative review of actuation technologies is presented. Innovative mechanism ideas that combine high force and deflection are described. Flexible smart actuators are obtained utilizing real time adaptive biomorphic controls. Such flexible smart actuators constitute an enabling technology for a variety of biomorphic systems ranging from small, agile biomorphic explorers that emulate biological mobility to much larger humanoid or anthropomorphic system. Due to their potential ability to explore difficult, hard-to-reach terrain, biomorphic explorers are promising for a variety of applications in law enforcement, hazardous environment inspection, toxic waste avoidance/elimination, and search/rescue in disaster areas such as earthquake sites. The control mechanisms used for the actuators are based on biological principles. For example, a neurally inspired controller (with the Banked Stimulus-Response, BSR, control generated using a genetic algorithm) provides a mapping between the current state of the robot (measured by sense variables such as internal actuator angles, velocity, and internal periodic clocks) and a target internal configuration (configuration of internal actuator angles). Innovative foldable advanced mobility mechanisms in combination with multipod techniques inspired by peristalsis in an earthworm robot are described. Flexible actuators offer the versatility of both shape control as well as mobility attribute control.
A comparative review,actuation technologies,Innovative mechanism ideas,high force,deflection,Flexible smart actuators,real time,real time adaptive biomorphic controls,Such flexible smart actuators,an enabling technology,a variety,biomorphic systems,small, agile biomorphic explorers,biological mobility,much larger humanoid,anthropomorphic system,their potential ability,difficult, hard-to-reach terrain,biomorphic explorers,a variety,applications,law enforcement,hazardous environment inspection,toxic waste avoidance/elimination,search/rescue,disaster areas,earthquake sites,The control mechanisms,the actuators,biological principles,example,the Banked Stimulus-Response,control,a genetic algorithm,a mapping,the current state,the robot,sense variables,internal actuator angles,velocity,internal periodic clocks,a target internal configuration,internal actuator angles,Innovative foldable advanced mobility mechanisms,combination,multipod techniques,peristalsis,an earthworm robot,Flexible actuators,the versatility,both shape control,mobility,control,
                                                                                                                                                                                "Real-time identification of tissue would improve procedures such as stereotactic brain biopsy (SBX), functional and implantation neurosurgery, and brain tumor excision. To standard SEX equipment has been added: (I) computer-controlled stepper motors to drive the biopsy needle/probe precisely; (2) multiple microprobes to track tissue density, detect blood vessels and changes in blood flow, and distinguish the various tissues being penetrated; (3) neural net learning programs to allow real-time comparisons of current data with a normative data bank; (4) three-dimensional graphic displays to follow the probe as it traverses brain tissue. The probe can differentiate substances such as pig brain, differing consistencies of the brain-like foodstuff tofu, and gels made to simulate brain, as well as detect blood vessels imbedded in these substances. Multimodality probes should improve the safety, efficacy, and diagnostic accuracy of SEX and other neurosurgical procedures."
Real-time identification,tissue,procedures,stereotactic brain biopsy,standard SEX equipment,I,the biopsy,multiple microprobes,tissue density,blood vessels,changes,blood flow,the various tissues,neural net learning programs,real-time comparisons,current data,a normative data bank,(4) three-dimensional graphic displays,the probe,it,brain tissue,The probe,substances,pig brain,differing consistencies,the brain-like foodstuff tofu,gels,brain,blood vessels,these substances,Multimodality probes,the safety,efficacy,diagnostic accuracy,SEX,other neurosurgical procedures,


